# Processed Content from URL: {'REFERENCE': 'https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/rds-proxy-connections.html'}

[](/pdfs/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/rds-ug.pdf#rds-proxy-connections "Open
PDF")

[Documentation](/index.html)[Amazon RDS](/rds/index.html)[User
Guide](Welcome.html)

Configuring connection settingsClient and database connections

# RDS Proxy connection considerations

## Configuring connection settings

To adjust RDS Proxy's connection pooling, you can modify the following
settings:

  * IdleClientTimeout

  * MaxConnectionsPercent

  * MaxIdleConnectionsPercent

  * ConnectionBorrowTimeout

### IdleClientTimeout

You can specify how long a client connection can be idle before the proxy
closes it. The default is 1,800 seconds (30 minutes).

A client connection is considered _idle_ when the application doesn't submit a
new request within the specified time after the previous request completed.
The underlying database connection stays open and is returned to the
connection pool. Thus, it's available to be reused for new client connections.
If you want the proxy to proactively remove stale connections, then lowering
the idle client connection timeout. If your workload establishes frequent
connections with the proxy, then raising the idle client connection timeout to
save the cost of establishing connections.

This setting is represented by the **Idle client connection timeout** field in
the RDS console and the `IdleClientTimeout` setting in the AWS CLI and the
API. To learn how to change the value of the **Idle client connection
timeout** field in the RDS console, see [AWS Management Console](./rds-proxy-
modifying-proxy.html#rds-proxy-modifying-proxy.console). To learn how to
change the value of the `IdleClientTimeout` setting, see the CLI command
[modify-db-proxy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/rds/modify-
db-proxy.html) or the API operation
[ModifyDBProxy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/APIReference/API_ModifyDBProxy.html).

### MaxConnectionsPercent

You can limit the number of connections that an RDS Proxy can establish with
the target database. You specify the limit as a percentage of the maximum
connections available for your database. This setting is represented by the
**Connection pool maximum connections** field in the RDS console and the
`MaxConnectionsPercent` setting in the AWS CLI and the API.

The `MaxConnectionsPercent` value is expressed as a percentage of the
`max_connections` setting for the RDS DB instance used by the target group.
The proxy doesn't create all of these connections in advance. This setting
allows the proxy to establish these connections as the workload needs them.

For example, for a registered database target with `max_connections` set to
1000, and `MaxConnectionsPercent` set to 95, RDS Proxy sets 950 connections as
the upper limit for concurrent connections to that database target.

A common side-effect of your workload reaching the maximum number of allowed
database connections is an increase in overall query latency, along with an
increase in the `DatabaseConnectionsBorrowLatency` metric. You can monitor
currently used and total allowed database connections by comparing the
`DatabaseConnections` and `MaxDatabaseConnectionsAllowed` metrics.

When setting this parameter, note the following best practices:

  * Allow sufficient connection headroom for changes in workload pattern. It is recommended to set the parameter at least 30% above your maximum recent monitored usage. As RDS Proxy redistributes database connection quotas across multiple nodes, internal capacity changes might require at least 30% headroom for additional connections to avoid increased borrow latencies.

  * RDS Proxy reserves a certain number of connections for active monitoring to support fast failover, traffic routing and internal operations. The `MaxDatabaseConnectionsAllowed` metric does not include these reserved connections. It represents the number of connections available to serve the workload, and can be lower than the value derived from the `MaxConnectionsPercent` setting.

Minimal recommended `MaxConnectionsPercent` values

    * db.t3.small: 30

    * db.t3.medium or above: 20

To learn how to change the value of the **Connection pool maximum
connections** field in the RDS console, see [AWS Management Console](./rds-
proxy-modifying-proxy.html#rds-proxy-modifying-proxy.console). To learn how to
change the value of the `MaxConnectionsPercent` setting, see the CLI command
[modify-db-proxy-target-
group](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/rds/modify-db-proxy-
target-group.html) or the API operation
[ModifyDBProxyTargetGroup](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/APIReference/API_ModifyDBProxyTargetGroup.html).

For information on database connection limits, see [Maximum number of database
connections](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/CHAP_Limits.html#RDS_Limits.MaxConnections).

### MaxIdleConnectionsPercent

You can control the number of idle database connections that RDS Proxy can
keep in the connection pool. By default, RDS Proxy considers a database
connection in its pool to be _idle_ when there's been no activity on the
connection for five minutes.

The `MaxIdleConnectionsPercent` value is expressed as a percentage of the
`max_connections` setting for the RDS DB instance target group. The default
value is 50 percent of `MaxConnectionsPercent`, and the upper limit is the
value of `MaxConnectionsPercent`. For example, if `MaxConnectionsPercent`, is
80, then the default value of `MaxIdleConnectionsPercent` is 40. If the value
of `MaxConnectionsPercent` isnât specified, then for RDS for SQL Server,
`MaxIdleConnectionsPercent` is 5, and for all other engines, the default is
50.

With a high value, the proxy leaves a high percentage of idle database
connections open. With a low value, the proxy closes a high percentage of idle
database connections. If your workloads are unpredictable, consider setting a
high value for `MaxIdleConnectionsPercent`. Doing so means that RDS Proxy can
accommodate surges in activity without opening a lot of new database
connections.

This setting is represented by the `MaxIdleConnectionsPercent` setting of
`DBProxyTargetGroup` in the AWS CLI and the API. To learn how to change the
value of the `MaxIdleConnectionsPercent` setting, see the CLI command [modify-
db-proxy-target-
group](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/rds/modify-db-proxy-
target-group.html) or the API operation
[ModifyDBProxyTargetGroup](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/APIReference/API_ModifyDBProxyTargetGroup.html).

For information on database connection limits, see [Maximum number of database
connections](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/CHAP_Limits.html#RDS_Limits.MaxConnections).

### ConnectionBorrowTimeout

You can choose how long RDS Proxy waits for a database connection in the
connection pool to become available for use before returning a timeout error.
The default is 120 seconds. This setting applies when the number of
connections is at the maximum, and so no connections are available in the
connection pool. It also applies when no appropriate database instance is
available to handle the request, such as when a failover operation is in
process. Using this setting, you can set the best wait period for your
application without changing the query timeout in your application code.

This setting is represented by the **Connection borrow timeout** field in the
RDS console or the `ConnectionBorrowTimeout` setting of `DBProxyTargetGroup`
in the AWS CLI or API. To learn how to change the value of the **Connection
borrow timeout** field in the RDS console, see [AWS Management Console](./rds-
proxy-modifying-proxy.html#rds-proxy-modifying-proxy.console). To learn how to
change the value of the `ConnectionBorrowTimeout` setting, see the CLI command
[modify-db-proxy-target-
group](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/rds/modify-db-proxy-
target-group.html) or the API operation
[ModifyDBProxyTargetGroup](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/APIReference/API_ModifyDBProxyTargetGroup.html).

## Client and database connections

Connections from your application to RDS Proxy are known as client
connections. Connections from a proxy to the database are database
connections. When using RDS Proxy, client connections terminate at the proxy
while database connections are managed within RDS Proxy.

Application-side connection pooling can provide the benefit of reducing
recurring connection establishment between your application and RDS Proxy.

Consider the following configuration aspects before implementing an
application-side connection pool:

  * Client connection max life: RDS Proxy enforces a maximum life of client connections of 24 hours. This value is not configurable. Configure your pool with a maximum connection life less than 24 hours to avoid unexpected client connection drops. 

  * Client connection idle timeout: RDS Proxy enforces a maximum idle time for client connections. Configure your pool with an idle connection timeout of a value lower than your client connection idle timeout setting for RDS Proxy to avoid unexpected connection drops.

The maximum number of client connections configured in your application-side
connection pool does not have to be limited to the **max_connections** setting
for RDS Proxy.

Client connection pooling results in a longer client connection life. If your
connections experience pinning, then pooling client connections might reduce
multiplexing efficiency. Client connections that are pinned but idle in the
application-side connection pool continue to hold on to a database connection
and prevent the database connection to be reused by other client connections.
Review your proxy logs to check whether your connections experience pinning.

###### Note

RDS Proxy closes database connections some time after 24 hours when they are
no longer in use. The proxy performs this action regardless of the value of
the maximum idle connections setting.

![Warning](https://d1ge0kk1l5kms0.cloudfront.net/images/G/01/webservices/console/warning.png)
**Javascript is disabled or is unavailable in your browser.**

To use the Amazon Web Services Documentation, Javascript must be enabled.
Please refer to your browser's Help pages for instructions.

[Document Conventions](/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

Adding a database user

Avoid pinning RDS Proxy

Did this page help you? - Yes

Thanks for letting us know we're doing a good job!

If you've got a moment, please tell us what we did right so we can do more of
it.

Did this page help you? - No

Thanks for letting us know this page needs work. We're sorry we let you down.

If you've got a moment, please tell us how we can make the documentation
better.

