# Processed Content from URL: {'REFERENCE': 'https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/rds-proxy.howitworks.html'}

[](/pdfs/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/rds-ug.pdf#rds-proxy.howitworks "Open
PDF")

[Documentation](/index.html)[Amazon RDS](/rds/index.html)[User
Guide](Welcome.html)

Overview of RDS Proxy conceptsConnection poolingSecurityFailoverTransactions

# RDS Proxy concepts and terminology

You can simplify connection management for your Amazon RDS DB instances by
using RDS Proxy.

RDS Proxy handles the network traffic between the client application and the
database. It does so in an active way first by understanding the database
protocol. It then adjusts its behavior based on the SQL operations from your
application and the result sets from the database.

RDS Proxy reduces the memory and CPU overhead for connection management on
your database. The database needs less memory and CPU resources when
applications open many simultaneous connections. It also doesn't require logic
in your applications to close and reopen connections that stay idle for a long
time. Similarly, it requires less application logic to reestablish connections
in case of a database problem.

The infrastructure for RDS Proxy is highly available and deployed over
multiple Availability Zones (AZs). The computation, memory, and storage for
RDS Proxy are independent of your RDS DB instance. This separation helps lower
overhead on your database servers, so that they can devote their resources to
serving database workloads. The RDS Proxy compute resources are serverless,
automatically scaling based on your database workload.

###### Topics

  * Overview of RDS Proxy concepts
  * Connection pooling
  * RDS Proxy security
  * Failover
  * Transactions

## Overview of RDS Proxy concepts

RDS Proxy handles the infrastructure to perform connection pooling and the
other features described in the sections that follow. You see the proxies
represented in the RDS console on the **Proxies** page.

Each proxy handles connections to a single RDS DB instance. The proxy
automatically determines the current writer instance for RDS Multi-AZ DB
instance or cluster.

The connections that a proxy keeps open and available for your database
applications to use make up the _connection pool_.

By default, RDS Proxy can reuse a connection after each transaction in your
session. This transaction-level reuse is called _multiplexing_. When RDS Proxy
temporarily removes a connection from the connection pool to reuse it, that
operation is called _borrowing_ the connection. When it's safe to do so, RDS
Proxy returns that connection to the connection pool.

In some cases, RDS Proxy can't be sure that it's safe to reuse a database
connection outside of the current session. In these cases, it keeps the
session on the same connection until the session ends. This fallback behavior
is called _pinning_.

A proxy has a default endpoint. You connect to this endpoint when you work
with an Amazon RDS DB instance. You do so instead of connecting to the
read/write endpoint that connects directly to the instance . For RDS DB
clusters, you can also create additional read/write and read-only endpoints.
For more information, see [Overview of proxy endpoints](./rds-proxy-
endpoints.html#rds-proxy-endpoints-overview).

For example, you can still connect to the cluster endpoint for read/write
connections without connection pooling. You can still connect to the reader
endpoint for load-balanced read-only connections. You can still connect to the
instance endpoints for diagnosis and troubleshooting of specific DB instances
within a cluster. If you use other AWS services such as AWS Lambda to connect
to RDS databases, change their connection settings to use the proxy endpoint.
For example, you specify the proxy endpoint to allow Lambda functions to
access your database while taking advantage of RDS Proxy functionality.

Each proxy contains a target group. This _target group_ embodies the RDS DB
instance that the proxy can connect to. The RDS DB instance associated with a
proxy are called the _targets_ of that proxy. For convenience, when you create
a proxy through the console, RDS Proxy also creates the corresponding target
group and registers the associated targets automatically.

An _engine family_ is a related set of database engines that use the same DB
protocol. You choose the engine family for each proxy that you create.

## Connection pooling

Each proxy performs connection pooling separately for the writer and reader
instance of its associated RDS database . _Connection pooling_ is an
optimization that reduces the overhead associated with opening and closing
connections and with keeping many connections open simultaneously. This
overhead includes memory needed to handle each new connection. It also
involves CPU overhead to close each connection and open a new one. Examples
include Transport Layer Security/Secure Sockets Layer (TLS/SSL) handshaking,
authentication, negotiating capabilities, and so on. Connection pooling
simplifies your application logic. You don't need to write application code to
minimize the number of simultaneous open connections.

Each proxy also performs connection multiplexing, also known as connection
reuse. With _multiplexing_ , RDS Proxy performs all the operations for a
transaction using one underlying database connection. RDS then can use a
different connection for the next transaction. You can open many simultaneous
connections to the proxy, and the proxy keeps a smaller number of connections
open to the DB instance or cluster. Doing so further minimizes the memory
overhead for connections on the database server. This technique also reduces
the chance of "too many connections" errors.

## RDS Proxy security

RDS Proxy uses the existing RDS security mechanisms such as TLS/SSL and AWS
Identity and Access Management (IAM). For general information about those
security features, see [Security in Amazon RDS](./UsingWithRDS.html). Also,
make sure to familiarize yourself with how RDS work with authentication,
authorization, and other areas of security.

RDS Proxy can act as an additional layer of security between client
applications and the underlying database. For example, you can connect to the
proxy using TLS 1.3, even if the underlying DB instance supports an older
version of TLS. You can connect to the proxy using an IAM role. This is so
even if the proxy connects to the database using the native user and password
authentication method. By using this technique, you can enforce strong
authentication requirements for database applications without a costly
migration effort for the DB instances themselves.

You store the database credentials used by RDS Proxy in AWS Secrets Manager.
Each database user for the RDS DB instance accessed by a proxy must have a
corresponding secret in Secrets Manager. You can also set up IAM
authentication for users of RDS Proxy. By doing so, you can enforce IAM
authentication for database access even if the databases use native password
authentication. We recommend using these security features instead of
embedding database credentials in your application code.

### Using TLS/SSL with RDS Proxy

You can connect to RDS Proxy using the TLS/SSL protocol.

###### Note

RDS Proxy uses certificates from the AWS Certificate Manager (ACM). If you are
using RDS Proxy, you don't need to download Amazon RDS certificates or update
applications that use RDS Proxy connections.

To enforce TLS for all connections between the proxy and your database, you
can specify a setting **Require Transport Layer Security** when you create or
modify a proxy in the AWS Management Console.

RDS Proxy can also ensure that your session uses TLS/SSL between your client
and the RDS Proxy endpoint. To have RDS Proxy do so, specify the requirement
on the client side. SSL session variables are not set for SSL connections to a
database using RDS Proxy.

  * For RDS for MySQL, specify the requirement on the client side with the `--ssl-mode` parameter when you run the `mysql` command. 

  * For Amazon RDS PostgreSQL, specify `sslmode=require` as part of the `conninfo` string when you run the `psql` command. 

RDS Proxy supports TLS protocol version 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, and 1.3. You can
connect to the proxy using a higher version of TLS than you use in the
underlying database.

By default, client programs establish an encrypted connection with RDS Proxy,
with further control available through the `--ssl-mode` option. From the
client side, RDS Proxy supports all SSL modes.

For the client, the SSL modes are the following:

**PREFERRED**

    

SSL is the first choice, but it isn't required.

**DISABLED**

    

No SSL is allowed.

**REQUIRED**

    

Enforce SSL.

**VERIFY_CA**

    

Enforce SSL and verify the certificate authority (CA).

**VERIFY_IDENTITY**

    

Enforce SSL and verify the CA and CA hostname.

When using a client with `--ssl-mode` `VERIFY_CA` or `VERIFY_IDENTITY`,
specify the `--ssl-ca` option pointing to a CA in `.pem` format. For the
`.pem` file to use, download all root CA PEMs from [Amazon Trust Services
](https://www.amazontrust.com/repository/) and place them into a single `.pem`
file.

RDS Proxy uses wildcard certificates, which apply to both a domain and its
subdomains. If you use the `mysql` client to connect with SSL mode
`VERIFY_IDENTITY`, currently you must use the MySQL 8.0-compatible `mysql`
command.

## Failover

_Failover_ is a high-availability feature that replaces a database instance
with another one when the original instance becomes unavailable. A failover
might happen because of a problem with a database instance. It might also be
part of normal maintenance procedures, such as during a database upgrade.
Failover applies to RDS DB instances in a Multi-AZ configuration.

Connecting through a proxy makes your applications more resilient to database
failovers. When the original DB instance becomes unavailable, RDS Proxy
connects to the standby database without dropping idle application
connections. This helps speed up and simplify the failover process. This is
less disruptive to your application than a typical reboot or database problem.

Without RDS Proxy, a failover involves a brief outage. During the outage, you
can't perform write operations on the database in failover. Any existing
database connections are disrupted, and your application must reopen them. The
database becomes available for new connections and write operations when a
read-only DB instance is promoted in place of one that's unavailable.

During DB failovers, RDS Proxy continues to accept connections at the same IP
address and automatically directs connections to the new primary DB instance.
Clients connecting through RDS Proxy are not susceptible to the following:

  * Domain Name System (DNS) propagation delays on failover. 

  * Local DNS caching. 

  * Connection timeouts. 

  * Uncertainty about which DB instance is the current writer. 

  * Waiting for a query response from a former writer that became unavailable without closing connections. 

For applications that maintain their own connection pool, going through RDS
Proxy means that most connections stay alive during failovers or other
disruptions. Only connections that are in the middle of a transaction or SQL
statement are canceled. RDS Proxy immediately accepts new connections. When
the database writer is unavailable, RDS Proxy queues up incoming requests.

For applications that don't maintain their own connection pools, RDS Proxy
offers faster connection rates and more open connections. It offloads the
expensive overhead of frequent reconnects from the database. It does so by
reusing database connections maintained in the RDS Proxy connection pool. This
approach is particularly important for TLS connections, where setup costs are
significant.

## Transactions

All the statements within a single transaction always use the same underlying
database connection. The connection becomes available for use by a different
session when the transaction ends. Using the transaction as the unit of
granularity has the following consequences:

  * Connection reuse can happen after each individual statement when the RDS for MySQL `autocommit` setting is turned on. 

  * Conversely, when the `autocommit` setting is turned off, the first statement you issue in a session begins a new transaction. For example, suppose that you enter a sequence of `SELECT`, `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and other data manipulation language (DML) statements. In this case, connection reuse doesn't happen until you issue a `COMMIT`, `ROLLBACK`, or otherwise end the transaction. 

  * Entering a data definition language (DDL) statement causes the transaction to end after that statement completes. 

RDS Proxy detects when a transaction ends through the network protocol used by
the database client application. Transaction detection doesn't rely on
keywords such as `COMMIT` or `ROLLBACK` appearing in the text of the SQL
statement.

In some cases, RDS Proxy might detect a database request that makes it
impractical to move your session to a different connection. In these cases, it
turns off multiplexing for that connection the remainder of your session. The
same rule applies if RDS Proxy can't be certain that multiplexing is practical
for the session. This operation is called _pinning_. For ways to detect and
minimize pinning, see [Avoiding pinning an RDS Proxy](./rds-proxy-
pinning.html).

![Warning](https://d1ge0kk1l5kms0.cloudfront.net/images/G/01/webservices/console/warning.png)
**Javascript is disabled or is unavailable in your browser.**

To use the Amazon Web Services Documentation, Javascript must be enabled.
Please refer to your browser's Help pages for instructions.

[Document Conventions](/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

Planning where to use RDS Proxy

Getting started with RDS Proxy

Did this page help you? - Yes

Thanks for letting us know we're doing a good job!

If you've got a moment, please tell us what we did right so we can do more of
it.

Did this page help you? - No

Thanks for letting us know this page needs work. We're sorry we let you down.

If you've got a moment, please tell us how we can make the documentation
better.

