# Processed Content from URL: {'REFERENCE': 'https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/blog/2024/06/10/aws-s3-bucket-security-the-top-cspm-practices'}

[Cloud 101](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/cloud-
newbie)[Circle](https://circle.cloudsecurityalliance.org/)[Events](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/events/)[Blog](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/blog/)Sign
in or Sign Up

[![](/assets/CSA-logo-
RGB-a0a3855889ad836fa585d60f6caf8d619f241d43904c304c2f64284127fe9bf3.svg)](/)

Membership

[Membership Benefits](/membership/)

[Our Member Community](/membership/current/)

[Get Involved](/membership/get-involved/)

[Become a Member](/membership/contact/)

Member-Exclusive Programs

[STAR Enabled Solutions](/star/registry/star-enabled-solutions/)

[Trusted Cloud Consultant](/trusted-cloud-consultant/registry/)

[Trusted Cloud Provider](/trusted-cloud-provider/)

[Certified STAR Auditors](/star/certified-star-auditors/)

[Member Portal](https://cloudsecurityalliance.my.site.com)

STAR Program

[STAR Home](/star/)

[STAR Registry](/star/registry/)

[Submit to Registry](/star/submit/)

[Provide Feedback](/star/feedback/)

[Certified STAR Auditors](/star/certified-star-auditors/)

[STAR Enabled Solutions](/star/star-enabled-solutions/overview/)

Stay compliant in the cloud

[CCAK Training](/education/ccak/)

[STAR Lead Auditor Training](/education/star-lead-auditor-training/)

[Training for Government Agencies](/education/gsa-schedule/)

Governance, Risk & Compliance Tools

[Cloud Controls Matrix (CCM)](/research/cloud-controls-matrix/)

[Consensus Assessment Initiative Questionnaire (CAIQ)](/research/cloud-
controls-matrix/)

[EU Cloud Code of Conduct](/gdpr/eu-cloud-code-of-conduct/)

[STAR Level 1](/star/registry/?level=1)

At level one organizations submit a self-assessment.

[View companies at level one](/star/registry/?level=1)

[Learn about level one](/star/#tab_levelOne)

[STAR Level 2](/star/registry/?level=2)

At level two organizations earn a certification or third-party attestation.

[View companies at level two](/star/registry/?level=2)

[Learn about level two](/star/#tab_levelTwo)

Certificates & Training

Online Education Platforms

[Knowledge Center](https://knowledge.cloudsecurityalliance.org)

[CSA Exams](https://exams.cloudsecurityalliance.org)

[Events](/events/)

Learn and network while you earn CPE credits.

[Virtual Events & Webinars](/events/virtual-and-webinars/)

[Event Sponsorships](/sponsor/)

[Certificates](/education/)

[Certificate of Cloud Security Knowledge (CCSK)](/education/ccsk/)

[Certificate of Cloud Auditing Knowledge (CCAK)](/education/ccak/)

[Certificate of Competence in Zero Trust (CCZT)](/education/cczt/)

[Digital Badges](/education/digital-badges/)

[Trainings](/education/)

[Cloud Infrastructure Security Training](/education/cloud-infrastructure-
security-training)

[STAR Lead Auditor Training](/education/star-lead-auditor-training/)

[Advanced Cloud Security Practitioner (ACSP) Training](/education/advanced-
cloud-security-practitioner-training)

[CCSK Train the Trainer](/education/train-the-trainer/)

[Training Network](/education/partner#become_partner)

[Become an Instructor](/education/instructors/)

[Become a Training Partner](/education/training-partners/)

Specialized Training Options

[Train my entire team](/education/business/)

[Training for Government Agencies](/education/gsa-schedule/)

Research

[CSA Research](/research/)

[Latest Research](/research/publications)

[Working Groups](/research/working-groups/)

[Chapters](/chapters/)

[Open Peer Reviews](/research/contribute#peer-reviews)

[Research Topics](/research/topics)

Strategic Initiatives

[AI Safety Initiative](/research/working-groups/artificial-intelligence/)

[Zero Trust Advancement Center](/zt/)

[CxO Trust](/cxo-trust/)

[Trusted Cloud Consultant](/trusted-cloud-consultant/)

[FinCloud Security](/fincloud-security)

Thought Leadership

[CloudBytes Webinars](/events/virtual-and-webinars/?event_kind=Webinar)

[Blog](/blog/)

Getting Started with CSA Research

[Cloud security best practices](/research/guidance/)

[Assess your cloud compliance](/research/cloud-controls-matrix/)

[Security questionnaire for vendors](/artifacts/star-level-1-security-
questionnaire-caiq-v4/)

[Top threats to cloud computing](/research/working-groups/top-threats/)

[Cloud Security Glossary](/cloud-security-glossary)

Awards & Recognition

[Juanita Koilpillai Awards](/research/juanita-koilpillai/service-award/)

[Research Fellows](/research/fellowship#fellows)

Critical Topics

[AI Safety Initiative](/research/working-groups/artificial-intelligence)

[AI Technology and Risk](/research/working-groups/ai-technology-and-risk)

[AI Governance & Compliance](/research/working-groups/ai-governance-
compliance)

[AI Controls](/research/working-groups/ai-controls)

[AI Organizational Responsibilities](/research/working-groups/ai-
organizational-responsibilities)

[Enterprise Architecture](/research/working-groups/enterprise-architecture)

[Blockchain](/research/working-groups/blockchain)

[Zero Trust](/research/working-groups/zero-trust)

[DevSecOps](/research/working-groups/devsecops)

[Top Threats](/research/working-groups/top-threats)

Search for:__

__

[![](/assets/CSA-logo-
RGB-a0a3855889ad836fa585d60f6caf8d619f241d43904c304c2f64284127fe9bf3.svg)](/)[__](/search)__

Membership

[Membership Benefits](/membership/)

[Our Member Community](/membership/current/)

[Get Involved](/membership/get-involved/)

[Become a Member](/membership/contact/)

Member-Exclusive Programs

[STAR Enabled Solutions](/star/registry/star-enabled-solutions/)

[Trusted Cloud Consultant](/trusted-cloud-consultant/registry/)

[Trusted Cloud Provider](/trusted-cloud-provider/)

[Certified STAR Auditors](/star/certified-star-auditors/)

[Member Portal](https://cloudsecurityalliance.my.site.com)

* * *

STAR Program

[STAR Home](/star/)

[STAR Registry](/star/registry/)

[Submit to Registry](/star/submit/)

[Provide Feedback](/star/feedback/)

[Certified STAR Auditors](/star/certified-star-auditors/)

[STAR Enabled Solutions](/star/star-enabled-solutions/overview/)

Stay compliant in the cloud

[CCAK Training](/education/ccak/)

[STAR Lead Auditor Training](/education/star-lead-auditor-training/)

[Training for Government Agencies](/education/gsa-schedule/)

Governance, Risk & Compliance Tools

[Cloud Controls Matrix (CCM)](/research/cloud-controls-matrix/)

[Consensus Assessment Initiative Questionnaire (CAIQ)](/research/cloud-
controls-matrix/)

[EU Cloud Code of Conduct](/gdpr/eu-cloud-code-of-conduct/)

[STAR Level 1](/star/registry/?level=1)

At level one organizations submit a self-assessment.

[View companies at level one](/star/registry/?level=1)

[Learn about level one](/star/#tab_levelOne)

[STAR Level 2](/star/registry/?level=2)

At level two organizations earn a certification or third-party attestation.

[View companies at level two](/star/registry/?level=2)

[Learn about level two](/star/#tab_levelTwo)

* * *

Certificates & Training

Online Education Platforms

[Knowledge Center](https://knowledge.cloudsecurityalliance.org)

[CSA Exams](https://exams.cloudsecurityalliance.org)

[Events](/events/)

Learn and network while you earn CPE credits.

[Virtual Events & Webinars](/events/virtual-and-webinars/)

[Event Sponsorships](/sponsor/)

[Certificates](/education/)

[Certificate of Cloud Security Knowledge (CCSK)](/education/ccsk/)

[Certificate of Cloud Auditing Knowledge (CCAK)](/education/ccak/)

[Certificate of Competence in Zero Trust (CCZT)](/education/cczt/)

[Digital Badges](/education/digital-badges/)

[Trainings](/education/)

[Cloud Infrastructure Security Training](/education/cloud-infrastructure-
security-training)

[STAR Lead Auditor Training](/education/star-lead-auditor-training/)

[Advanced Cloud Security Practitioner (ACSP) Training](/education/advanced-
cloud-security-practitioner-training)

[CCSK Train the Trainer](/education/train-the-trainer/)

[Training Network](/education/partner#become_partner)

[Become an Instructor](/education/instructors/)

[Become a Training Partner](/education/training-partners/)

Specialized Training Options

[Train my entire team](/education/business/)

[Training for Government Agencies](/education/gsa-schedule/)

* * *

Research

[CSA Research](/research/)

[Latest Research](/research/publications)

[Working Groups](/research/working-groups/)

[Chapters](/chapters/)

[Open Peer Reviews](/research/contribute#peer-reviews)

[Research Topics](/research/topics)

Strategic Initiatives

[AI Safety Initiative](/research/working-groups/artificial-intelligence/)

[Zero Trust Advancement Center](/zt/)

[CxO Trust](/cxo-trust/)

[Trusted Cloud Consultant](/trusted-cloud-consultant/)

[FinCloud Security](/fincloud-security)

Thought Leadership

[CloudBytes Webinars](/events/virtual-and-webinars/?event_kind=Webinar)

[Blog](/blog/)

Getting Started with CSA Research

[Cloud security best practices](/research/guidance/)

[Assess your cloud compliance](/research/cloud-controls-matrix/)

[Security questionnaire for vendors](/artifacts/star-level-1-security-
questionnaire-caiq-v4/)

[Top threats to cloud computing](/research/working-groups/top-threats/)

[Cloud Security Glossary](/cloud-security-glossary)

Awards & Recognition

[Juanita Koilpillai Awards](/research/juanita-koilpillai/service-award/)

[Research Fellows](/research/fellowship#fellows)

Critical Topics

[AI Safety Initiative](/research/working-groups/artificial-intelligence)

[AI Technology and Risk](/research/working-groups/ai-technology-and-risk)

[AI Governance & Compliance](/research/working-groups/ai-governance-
compliance)

[AI Controls](/research/working-groups/ai-controls)

[AI Organizational Responsibilities](/research/working-groups/ai-
organizational-responsibilities)

[Enterprise Architecture](/research/working-groups/enterprise-architecture)

[Blockchain](/research/working-groups/blockchain)

[Zero Trust](/research/working-groups/zero-trust)

[DevSecOps](/research/working-groups/devsecops)

[Top Threats](/research/working-groups/top-threats)

* * *

[Cloud 101](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/cloud-
newbie)[Circle](https://circle.cloudsecurityalliance.org/)[Events](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/events/)[Blog](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/blog/)

Sign In

As a CSA Member, get access to professionally produced product demo videos
through our partnership with Demo Forum. [Learn
more](https://www.cybersymposiums.com/page/csa-program/)!

# AWS S3 Bucket Security: The Top CSPM Practices

Published 06/10/2024

[Home](/)

[Industry Insights](/blog)

AWS S3 Bucket Security: The Top CSPM Practices

 __

[![](/assets/social-share/li-
icon-09fa81c48d4329077ed9608610eb94677c1598373b57333973e931874e641c30.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/1864210/profile)[![](/assets/social-
share/x-icon-d5737d8484c6d1c6b2c18ad43c18037db1925464c40f14899cdfdb82fe33a861.svg)](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=AWS
S3 Bucket Security: The Top CSPM Practices&url=)[![](/assets/social-share/fb-
icon-c0307da13019b8e4ef32e5f2e7039eac01c272bcbc2c3a7aad4ba033c0a27153.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/csacloudfiles)

**Written by[ArmorCode](https://www.armorcode.com/).**

  

![](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/rails/active_storage/blobs/redirect/eyJfcmFpbHMiOnsiZGF0YSI6MzE4NDAsInB1ciI6ImJsb2JfaWQifX0=--dd8a618fc09dbd507d305409ac5267f23fb3d4c0/AWS%20S3%20Bucket%20Security%20-%20The%20Top%20CSPM%20Practices.png)An
S3 bucket is a fundamental resource in Amazon Web Services (AWS) for storing
and managing data in the cloud. S3 stands for "**Simple Storage Service** ,"
providing scalable, durable, and highly available object storage.

S3 is widely used for various purposes, such as storing backups, hosting
static websites, serving as a data lake for analytics, and acting as a primary
storage solution and reliable object storage service at the core of many AWS
solutions.  
  

### The Top S3 Bucket Risks and Issues

  

![](https://lh7-us.googleusercontent.com/docsz/AD_4nXdk-Ushuz0Rd-
IpbRobBL1ENCW0vSy9PVJDj2GAygY7I3N8aw5O7kHQGD0HcPG8JJPrXAtmWsLoXZlnX3Lz9OQ-
eRl0MpRD0aGdxirnUyALdXmVFwK0JWYpWRKgN28GCVDmia2nljMFm_joEgyEcAh6ZRCU?key=4wpSYsNmp0F9VmZgnd5rKA)

‍

#### 1\. Unauthorized Access to Sensitive Data in S3 Buckets

Configuration errors in S3 settings can expose sensitive data. This oversight
enables malicious users to gain unauthorized access to critical information.
To maintain security, these configuration issues must be addressed.

  

#### 2\. Data Visibility & Protection Gaps in S3 Buckets

‍Ensuring visibility into S3 bucket contents and assessing protection measures
are crucial. Insufficient oversight can lead to unforeseen risks. Regularly
auditing data and security controls is essential to safeguard stored
information.

  

#### 3\. Malware Upload Vulnerabilities in S3 Buckets

Configuration weaknesses may permit malware uploads into S3 buckets, creating
a potential threat vector. Detecting and fixing these issues is vital to
prevent further cyberattacks and protect your AWS infrastructure.  
  

### Best Practices for Effective CSPM of Amazon S3 Storage  
  

![](https://lh7-us.googleusercontent.com/docsz/AD_4nXdofkB4oo1s0Ku9zsWL8_WkHR6hKjRElQs-J0MwaR8-XEeeRT3JH4s3O1rAKdsDWt12XaB2YItCJDS07-pxAyN-
TFhyHy8K1EYk618UFilpSqLD9ow2NIEArr_KcQRhyVAcRMcZ6ljHmO3F-aeBCHnajns?key=4wpSYsNmp0F9VmZgnd5rKA)

 _Source:_[ _AWS News Blog_](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/new-
amazon-s3-dual-layer-server-side-encryption-with-keys-stored-in-aws-key-
management-service-dsse-kms/)

While S3 is a powerful way to store data affordably and at scale, it can also
be risky. The best practices can significantly enhance the security and
compliance of your Amazon S3 buckets and reduce the risk of data breaches or
incidents caused by misconfiguration.

  

#### 1\. Configuring Bucket Permissions

**Problem Statement:** Inadequate or misconfigured permissions on S3 buckets
can lead to a wide range of security and privacy issues. If bucket permissions
are too permissive, unauthorized users or applications may gain access,
potentially exposing sensitive data to unintended parties.  
  
**Explanation:** The best practices for configuring bucket permissions are
essential to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of your data. It
ensures that only authorized users or applications have the necessary access
to interact with objects in the S3 bucket, reducing the risk of data breaches,
data leaks, or compliance violations.

  * Use **AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM)** to grant the least privileged access to S3 buckets.
  * Implement access controls using **resource-based policies** to restrict access to specific IP ranges or VPCs.
  * Avoid using overly permissive ACLs (Access Control Lists) or policies.
  * Ensure that your Amazon S3 buckets are not publicly accessible. Use **S3 Block Public Access**.

![](https://lh7-us.googleusercontent.com/docsz/AD_4nXcdFnlRBqCGIt4znwn20uta1U7jFjdp1SrNjUNCS1uXIeYUt0woQbISTj4z_aPGrCKhWXGeXXkPJCPNxwgvFv5cMTRl8lallwt4DbA0refEn-i0eG1ZJtXGMK0BJdYUtgDk5QvMFpo-
d_7VbfnBDLg4b-1a?key=4wpSYsNmp0F9VmZgnd5rKA)

_[S3 Block Public Access](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/features/block-public-
access/)_

  * Consider **Amazon S3 pre-signed URLs or Amazon CloudFront signed URL** s to provide limited-time access to Amazon S3 for specific applications.

  

#### 2\. Enable Logging

**Problem Statement:** Without comprehensive logging, it is challenging to
track who is accessing your S3 buckets, what actions are being performed, and
whether any security breaches or data leaks are occurring.

**Explanation:** Enabling S3 bucket logging serves as a critical component of
your security and compliance posture. It allows you to monitor and audit
access and actions, aiding in security incident investigations, compliance
with data protection regulations, and accountability for any changes or
activities within the bucket.

  * Configure logging to store access logs in a separate S3 bucket with restricted access.
  * Set up **log file integrity validation** to ensure logs haven't been tampered with.
  * Monitor log data for unusual patterns or potential security incidents.
  * Establish a **log retention policy** to determine how long log data should be retained.
  * Consider using centralized log management solutions like **AWS CloudWatch Logs, AWS Elasticsearch** , or third-party solutions.

  

#### 3\. Enable Versioning

**Problem Statement:** In the absence of versioning, accidental or malicious
data deletions or overwrites may result in permanent data loss with no
recovery option. This could be catastrophic for businesses that rely on
historical data for decision-making, auditing, or regulatory compliance.

**Explanation:** Enabling versioning is a fundamental data protection
mechanism. It creates a historical record of all object versions, allowing you
to recover previous versions if data is inadvertently modified or deleted.

  * Create and enforce a**versioning policy** for all S3 buckets within your organization.
  * Implement versioning with **MFA (Multi-Factor Authentication)** delete protection for critical data.
  * Automate the cleanup of outdated versions using lifecycle policies.
  * Consider **S3 Replication** to different AWS accounts to protect your data and remain compliant‍

#### ‍

![](https://lh7-us.googleusercontent.com/docsz/AD_4nXesrtkHT3JIEd9c-UVWdFu-E18ug9o272O-v7tu-9qVmXvfqqhRW3EV_ffZaXlkKjcYVjQJd_dzLnqr1ozlB_Z40sKrdgXT6W1qk_dwNX7w4xIDS_sPtqa9v24ClmqYgM1jyCZRmu7ErDSRpOsrVBt0_09V?key=4wpSYsNmp0F9VmZgnd5rKA)

 _Source:_[ _AWS Public Sector
Blog_](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/publicsector/how-to-meet-business-data-
resiliency-s3-cross-region-replication/)

  

#### 4\. Data Encryption

**Problem Statement:** Storing unencrypted data in S3 exposes it to potential
data breaches, especially during data transfers or in cases of unauthorized
access. In today's data-driven world, data breaches can result in significant
financial and reputational damage.

**Explanation:** Enforcing data encryption, both in transit and at rest, is a
fundamental practice to safeguard sensitive information. It protects your data
from unauthorized access, ensuring that even if data is intercepted or
accessed without permission, it remains indecipherable to malicious actors,
significantly reducing the risk of data compromise and data leaks.

  * Enable default encryption for the entire S3 bucket to ensure consistency.
  * Use **AWS Key Management Service (KMS)** to manage encryption keys for SSE (Server-side encryption)-KMS.  
‍

![](https://lh7-us.googleusercontent.com/docsz/AD_4nXeRjH_ipSbCIfJCgfHgHDB68qoV5pHmpy9VNNiauYlFYvZDnWdTS2bk2ldNIRBM9wJc_FjeES1n2DWjVW3swOiwNLnfOuiTEOlnlbcBNBnFWHtfP__79UBcjV4Oz7QGPqCiGyxuLAYgSC57cj8kC1hMqvM?key=4wpSYsNmp0F9VmZgnd5rKA)

 _Source:_[ _Amazon Simple Storage Service User
Guide_](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/Welcome.html)

  * Implement **client-side encryption** for additional security when uploading data
  * Enforce**encryption-in-transit** for access to Amazon S3

  

#### 5\. Monitoring, Auditing, and Alerts

**Problem Statement:** Without continuous monitoring and auditing, it's
challenging to detect and respond to suspicious activities and security
incidents on time. This can lead to prolonged security breaches and increased
damage.

**Explanation:** Implementing robust monitoring, auditing, and alerting
mechanisms is a proactive approach to cybersecurity. It enables you to
identify and respond to security threats in real time, reducing the potential
impact of breaches and helping to maintain data confidentiality, integrity,
and availability.

  * Implement automated alerting systems to promptly detect and respond to any unauthorized access attempts or configuration alterations.
  * Deploy **Amazon Macie** to enhance data security visibility and enable proactive monitoring of your data security posture.

#### ‍

![](https://lh7-us.googleusercontent.com/docsz/AD_4nXfZcavki8e3tet77__q2w0PBSbIJbZyBcwD9b4aJoCnKQirgeT75juu5UdrJfDEhEAfF54fwSeKVk2Yuu4xo4mOnblAEN19xqhtojezas9r_y2BaDCKth8wliEgbPTdLW0T18eEJzaGDlQSQ3gmjTSabC6B?key=4wpSYsNmp0F9VmZgnd5rKA)

 _[Amazon Macie](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/latest/digital-
transformation-it-modernization-elections/csf-functions-and-elections.html)_

  * Employ **Amazon S3 Inventory** to conduct audits and generate reports regarding the replication and encryption status of your objects
  * Utilize the **Tag Editor** to categorize resources as security-sensitive or audit-sensitive.

  

#### 6\. Access Control Lists (ACLs) & Bucket Policies

**Problem Statement:** Misconfigured or overly permissive ACLs and bucket
policies can lead to unauthorized data access and data exposure, which can
result in data breaches and compliance violations.

**Explanation:** Properly defining ACLs and bucket policies is essential to
control access to your S3 resources granularly. These mechanisms ensure that
only authorized users, applications, or systems have the necessary permissions
to interact with your S3 objects, reducing the risk of data exposure and
unauthorized access.

![](https://lh7-us.googleusercontent.com/docsz/AD_4nXdShxgADKTeQXWsMEa_ObCfZKdjwv-
OaJJdrAiw9Nkkzp4o_Kt23BgRuEmMneQwpEKBlo0Q0tzZFuSByg4dlfvoCxI8GijV7_u1s0nQQPibJWxXVF3ya8WBjCFgIbXSnZYHUgJsUWkqwWgYxfB5Hq-8TpI?key=4wpSYsNmp0F9VmZgnd5rKA)

‍

  * Maintain a central repository of ACLs and bucket policies for documentation and version control.
  * Avoid setting **public-read** or **public-read-write ACLs** unless it's explicitly required for your use case. Public access should be carefully controlled.
  * Regularly review and test policies to ensure they function as intended.
  * Implement policy conditions like **MFA** or **IP restrictions** for sensitive buckets.
  * Disable ACLs, except in unusual circumstances where you must control access for each object individually.

  

#### 7\. AWS Organizations

**‍Problem Statement:** Managing AWS resources in a disorganized or
uncoordinated manner can lead to security gaps, compliance issues, and
inefficient resource allocation. It can be challenging to maintain a clear
picture of resource usage and access across a complex AWS environment.

**Explanation:** AWS Organizations provides a framework for centralizing
resource management, simplifying billing, and creating account hierarchies.
This approach helps ensure consistent security policies, efficient resource
allocation, and improved visibility across your organization's AWS
infrastructure, reducing the risk of security gaps and compliance violations.

  * Centralize S3 bucket security settings and monitoring across multiple AWS accounts using AWS Organizations.
  * Use AWS Organizations to simplify billing and cost management for S3 storage.
  * Implement **AWS Service Control Policies (SCPs)** to enforce security policies consistently.
  * Utilize **S3 Storage Lens** metrics to quickly gain insights into your organization's storage usage, including identifying the fastest-growing buckets and prefixes.

![](https://lh7-us.googleusercontent.com/docsz/AD_4nXeNDVeA72ckmXY2h8OB14xgdz1DFN5IQYQ3F2YKxXOC41JSS2KuLSVH9psm3Mgk8LN_wgnXCqunnwsvITSQTpU9IqpSGsWZE-
FZqsp1vXVGsASOsoJJvd5KYsK8iPGxS2gxiIH_IwyZIYOZ058TEp3dCT3P?key=4wpSYsNmp0F9VmZgnd5rKA)

[_S3 Storage Lens_ _  
_](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/storage-lens/)

[_  
_](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/storage-lens/)

#### 8\. Backup and Disaster Recovery

**Problem Statement:** Without a solid backup and disaster recovery strategy,
data may be permanently lost due to data corruption, accidental deletion,
hardware failures, or natural disasters, resulting in financial losses and
disruptions to business operations.

**Explanation:** Implementing a robust backup and disaster recovery plan is
vital for data resilience and business continuity. It ensures that data can be
recovered and restored in case of unforeseen incidents, reducing the risk of
data loss, downtime, and the associated financial and operational impacts.

  * Create and maintain off-site backups of critical data to ensure data recovery in case of data loss.
  * **Test disaster recovery procedures** to verify data can be restored successfully.
  * Implement **versioned backups** to have historical data snapshots available for recovery.
  * Set up cross-region replication for critical data to create a geographically redundant copy of your S3 objects in another AWS region.
  * Define backup frequency based on your **Recovery Point Objective (RPO)**. Critical data might require more frequent backups than less critical data.

  

#### 9\. Data Classification and Object Lifecycle Policies

**Problem Statement:** Unmanaged data often leads to the accumulation of
unnecessary and potentially sensitive information, increasing storage costs
and the risk of compliance violations. Inefficient data management can also
hinder data retrieval and analysis efforts.

**Explanation:** Implementing data classification and object lifecycle
policies helps efficiently manage your data throughout its lifecycle. It
enables you to identify, classify, and automate the management of data,
reducing storage costs and ensuring compliance with data retention
requirements. Efficient data management also supports better data analysis and
retrieval.

  * Assign **metadata tags** to objects to denote their sensitivity levels and identify their respective data owners.
  * Implement **data loss prevention (DLP) policies** to prevent unauthorized sharing of sensitive data.
  * Archive objects to more cost-effective storage classes such as **S3 Glacier Instant Retrieval, S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval** , and **S3 Glacier Deep Archive** for data that doesn't necessitate frequent access.  
‍

![](https://lh7-us.googleusercontent.com/docsz/AD_4nXfzbYp0OsEFeTs_yjgvMc72kqcBM7B4PtV8yLntqHrr799MaVlZPWO63WQTweL_ZlRihik12vTZfS74L3cVjCXT5JJO9a
--9gj9Tq8eRXdPBugZ9_lCU3ywh4x9Wc8xXlmO5M8URLPGFqA-
QKw3RZzTNMc?key=4wpSYsNmp0F9VmZgnd5rKA)

 _Source:_[ _Whizlabs_](https://www.whizlabs.com/labs/creating-
an-s3-lifecycle-policy)

  * Define clear object lifecycle policies in accordance with data retention requirements to ensure proper data management.
  * Delete objects securely, implementing rigorous verification mechanisms to guarantee their complete and secure removal.

  

#### 10\. Documentation and Training

**Problem Statement:** The lack of proper documentation and training can
result in misconfigurations, security lapses, and inefficient use of S3
resources. It can lead to confusion among team members and a lack of
consistent best practice adherence.

**Explanation:** Providing comprehensive documentation and training is
essential to ensure that your team understands and follows best practices for
AWS S3 bucket management. It promotes consistency, reduces the likelihood of
errors, and helps teams work together effectively, ultimately leading to more
secure and efficient S3 bucket management.

  * Create and maintain comprehensive documentation of S3 bucket security configurations.
  * Maintain an inventory of all S3 buckets, including their purpose, data classification, and responsible owners.
  * Provide regular security training for your team to stay updated on AWS security best practices.
  * Encourage a culture of security awareness and responsibility within your organization.
  * Keep documentation up-to-date as your AWS environment evolves, and review it regularly to incorporate lessons learned and best practices.

[AWS](/blog/terms/aws)[Cloud Security Services Management](/blog/terms/cloud-
security-services-management)[Data Security](/blog/terms/data-
security)[Misconfiguration](/blog/terms/misconfiguration)

[![](/assets/social-share/li-
icon-09fa81c48d4329077ed9608610eb94677c1598373b57333973e931874e641c30.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/1864210/profile)[![](/assets/social-
share/x-icon-d5737d8484c6d1c6b2c18ad43c18037db1925464c40f14899cdfdb82fe33a861.svg)](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=AWS
S3 Bucket Security: The Top CSPM Practices&url=)[![](/assets/social-share/fb-
icon-c0307da13019b8e4ef32e5f2e7039eac01c272bcbc2c3a7aad4ba033c0a27153.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/csacloudfiles)[![](/assets/social-
share/yt-icon-
ade320bf2b6ffeae084895dac740b736c7dda9f181a871260f83da2462465ab3.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCrcG6ZtsBPz3xkUZU6asVhA)

 _Share this content on your favorite social network today!_

Core Cloud

##### Related Resources

[![](/assets/blog/top_threats_to_cloud_computing-c71af9dc45291c48b67b2cd9f8971f7b72642145fff422669323bc775d806041.png)**Top
Threats to Cloud Computing** The eleven salient threats, risks, and
vulnerabilities in the cloud.](/artifacts/top-threats-to-cloud-computing-
pandemic-
eleven/)[![](/assets/blog/ccsk-b5357c23928d22a1759fe22d44dae52015270f6f3309a9d708881e35ff64a4bb.png)**Certificate
of Cloud Security Knowledge (CCSK)** The industry's standard cloud security
credential.](/education/ccsk/)[![](/assets/blog/corporate_membership-541d9c9f7f3516a99326037e35eb599276c76a516443a97375f1397607c70485.png)**Corporate
Membership** Gain knowledge and connections in the cloud
industry.](/artifacts/csa-corporate-brochure-2024)

##### Latest from CSA

[![](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/rails/active_storage/representations/redirect/eyJfcmFpbHMiOnsiZGF0YSI6Mzk2NjAsInB1ciI6ImJsb2JfaWQifX0=--ff01093c6a10823bccf95b0c25d5f1c78a005409/eyJfcmFpbHMiOnsiZGF0YSI6eyJmb3JtYXQiOiJwbmciLCJyZXNpemVfdG9fbGltaXQiOlsxMzIsOTldfSwicHVyIjoidmFyaWF0aW9uIn19
--1c3631b2c4e5d2a9f120d3fbdaa1517964193ad5/FinCloud-Security-
Summit-2025-800x600-latest-news.png)Register for the Virtual FinCloud Security
Summit
](https://cvent.me/lA2MBa?utm_source=launch&utm_campaign=launch&utm_medium=website)[![](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/rails/active_storage/representations/redirect/eyJfcmFpbHMiOnsiZGF0YSI6Mzk3NDksInB1ciI6ImJsb2JfaWQifX0=--719cfb55ecdb523a86b6dac74631c2a8874c235b/eyJfcmFpbHMiOnsiZGF0YSI6eyJmb3JtYXQiOiJwbmciLCJyZXNpemVfdG9fbGltaXQiOlsxMzIsOTldfSwicHVyIjoidmFyaWF0aW9uIn19
--1c3631b2c4e5d2a9f120d3fbdaa1517964193ad5/CCM-video-series-800x600.png)Watch
the CCM Video
Series](https://series.brighttalk.com/series/6980/)[![](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/rails/active_storage/representations/redirect/eyJfcmFpbHMiOnsiZGF0YSI6Mzk3MjYsInB1ciI6ImJsb2JfaWQifX0=--9e16242779c655f045c7fdb4527fe442edf57d0e/eyJfcmFpbHMiOnsiZGF0YSI6eyJmb3JtYXQiOiJwbmciLCJyZXNpemVfdG9fbGltaXQiOlsxMzIsOTldfSwicHVyIjoidmFyaWF0aW9uIn19
--
1c3631b2c4e5d2a9f120d3fbdaa1517964193ad5/CCZT%20Training%20Partner%20-%20Profabula%20800x600%20latest%20news.png)Sign
Up for CCZT Classes on the West Coast](https://www.profabula.com/training-
purchase)

![](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/rails/active_storage/blobs/redirect/eyJfcmFpbHMiOnsiZGF0YSI6Mzk1NDksInB1ciI6ImJsb2JfaWQifX0=--fc20544507efbf9f719063feffffbddba32dc742/CCM%20Implementation%20Videos%20campaign%20blog%20ad.png)![](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/rails/active_storage/blobs/redirect/eyJfcmFpbHMiOnsiZGF0YSI6MzkzMTYsInB1ciI6ImJsb2JfaWQifX0=--75ece90b5ad343ef66530d835cacacc8699bd43e/ZS-
REv-CSAAd-DORAandBeyond-800x600-01%5B39%5D.jpg)

##### [Enhance your cloud security skills with CSA's online training
options.](https://knowledge.cloudsecurityalliance.org/)

[![](/assets/arrows/arrow-white-
right-53b5245d5c2df81c153080d64b7cbaeddc14e5b9e8f582d1400b7be8edda4db2.svg)](https://knowledge.cloudsecurityalliance.org/)

###### Related Articles:

[![](/rails/active_storage/representations/redirect/eyJfcmFpbHMiOnsiZGF0YSI6MTA1NjMsInB1ciI6ImJsb2JfaWQifX0=--339c9ef5bd43306313a5364da9426518717bb71b/eyJfcmFpbHMiOnsiZGF0YSI6eyJmb3JtYXQiOiJqcGciLCJhdXRvX29yaWVudCI6dHJ1ZSwicm90YXRlIjowLCJncmF2aXR5IjoiY2VudGVyIiwicmVzaXplIjoiNDAweDYwMF4iLCJiYWNrZ3JvdW5kIjoibm9uZSJ9LCJwdXIiOiJ2YXJpYXRpb24ifX0=--310876cbbca9fc5c5307dd52ccf006503fd7e296/Why-
Every-Cybersecurity-Leader-Should-Assume-
Breach.jpg)](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/articles/dark-patterns-
understanding-their-impact-harm-and-how-the-cppa-is-cracking-down)

###### [Dark Patterns: Understanding Their Impact, Harm, and How the CPPA is
Cracking Down](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/articles/dark-patterns-
understanding-their-impact-harm-and-how-the-cppa-is-cracking-down)

**Published:** 02/19/2025

[![](/rails/active_storage/representations/redirect/eyJfcmFpbHMiOnsiZGF0YSI6MTAxMDcsInB1ciI6ImJsb2JfaWQifX0=--1f45a06d69bc9135cd1e5ce3d5a2be987e3208db/eyJfcmFpbHMiOnsiZGF0YSI6eyJmb3JtYXQiOiJqcGciLCJhdXRvX29yaWVudCI6dHJ1ZSwicm90YXRlIjowLCJncmF2aXR5IjoiY2VudGVyIiwicmVzaXplIjoiNDAweDYwMF4iLCJiYWNrZ3JvdW5kIjoibm9uZSJ9LCJwdXIiOiJ2YXJpYXRpb24ifX0=--310876cbbca9fc5c5307dd52ccf006503fd7e296/Understanding-
the-Updates-to-Risk-Management-in-PCI-
DSS-v4_0.jpg)](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/articles/top-threat-10-who-
goes-there-tackling-unauthenticated-resource-sharing)

###### [Top Threat #10 - Who Goes There? Tackling Unauthenticated Resource
Sharing](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/articles/top-threat-10-who-goes-
there-tackling-unauthenticated-resource-sharing)

**Published:** 02/18/2025

[![](/rails/active_storage/representations/redirect/eyJfcmFpbHMiOnsiZGF0YSI6NDUwOCwicHVyIjoiYmxvYl9pZCJ9fQ==--c67e52eb2062694c31f5f17dbd21f0d6a52d3a65/eyJfcmFpbHMiOnsiZGF0YSI6eyJmb3JtYXQiOiJqcGciLCJhdXRvX29yaWVudCI6dHJ1ZSwicm90YXRlIjowLCJncmF2aXR5IjoiY2VudGVyIiwicmVzaXplIjoiNDAweDYwMF4iLCJiYWNrZ3JvdW5kIjoibm9uZSJ9LCJwdXIiOiJ2YXJpYXRpb24ifX0=--310876cbbca9fc5c5307dd52ccf006503fd7e296/Cloud-
Native-Security-101.jpg)](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/articles/how-
repsol-s-dlp-strategy-enables-a-fearless-embrace-of-genai)

###### [How Repsol’s DLP Strategy Enables a Fearless Embrace of
GenAI](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/articles/how-repsol-s-dlp-strategy-
enables-a-fearless-embrace-of-genai)

**Published:** 02/13/2025

[![](/rails/active_storage/representations/redirect/eyJfcmFpbHMiOnsiZGF0YSI6NTc3NiwicHVyIjoiYmxvYl9pZCJ9fQ==--eeabfaf0371e53d818f709ad0a1f47bbf0f64c16/eyJfcmFpbHMiOnsiZGF0YSI6eyJmb3JtYXQiOiJqcGciLCJhdXRvX29yaWVudCI6dHJ1ZSwicm90YXRlIjowLCJncmF2aXR5IjoiY2VudGVyIiwicmVzaXplIjoiNDAweDYwMF4iLCJiYWNrZ3JvdW5kIjoibm9uZSJ9LCJwdXIiOiJ2YXJpYXRpb24ifX0=--310876cbbca9fc5c5307dd52ccf006503fd7e296/Not-
All-Visibility-Is-Created-Equal-What-Are-You-Looking-
For-.jpg)](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/articles/5-ways-non-human-
identity-ownership-impacts-your-security-program)

###### [5 Ways Non-Human Identity Ownership Impacts Your Security
Program](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/articles/5-ways-non-human-identity-
ownership-impacts-your-security-program)

**Published:** 02/12/2025

**We value your privacy.** Our website uses analytics and advertising cookies
to improve your browsing experience. Read our full [Privacy
Policy](/legal/privacy-notice/).

CustomizeAllow

**About the Cookies**

**Analytics cookies,** from [Google Analytics](https://analytics.google.com/)
and [Microsoft Clarity](https://clarity.microsoft.com/) help us analyze site
usage to continuously improve our website.

Enable cookies for analytics.

**Advertising cookies,** enable [Google](https://policies.google.com/privacy)
to collect information to display content and ads tailored to your interests.

Enable cookies for advertising.

Decline All

![](/assets/csa-logo-
white-33c6ce89081b4488f9fe480c8e4f5e662f8a9723e5467d30359ff832c269b7d6.png)

[![](/assets/social-share/li-
icon-09fa81c48d4329077ed9608610eb94677c1598373b57333973e931874e641c30.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/1864210/profile)[![](/assets/social-
share/x-icon-d5737d8484c6d1c6b2c18ad43c18037db1925464c40f14899cdfdb82fe33a861.svg)](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=&url=)[![](/assets/social-
share/fb-
icon-c0307da13019b8e4ef32e5f2e7039eac01c272bcbc2c3a7aad4ba033c0a27153.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/csacloudfiles)[![](/assets/social-
share/yt-icon-
ade320bf2b6ffeae084895dac740b736c7dda9f181a871260f83da2462465ab3.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCrcG6ZtsBPz3xkUZU6asVhA)

© 2009–2025 Cloud Security Alliance.  
All rights reserved.

###### [Corporate Membership](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/membership/)

[Cloud
Customers](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/membership/enterprises/)[Cloud
Solution Providers](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/membership/solution-
providers/)

###### [Join as an Individual](https://circle.cloudsecurityalliance.org/home)

[Circle Community
Forum](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/circle/)[Chapters](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/chapters/)[Working
Groups](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/research/working-groups/)

###### [Research](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/research/)

[Download
Publications](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/research/artifacts/)[View
Working Groups](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/research/working-
groups/)[View All Topics](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/research/topics)

###### Find a...

[Cloud Consultant](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/trusted-cloud-
consultant)[Cloud Service
Provider](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/star/registry/)[Trusted Cloud
Provider](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/trusted-cloud-provider)

###### [Certificates](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/education/)

[CCSK](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/education/ccsk/)[CCAK](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/education/ccak/)[CCZT](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/education/cczt/)

###### [Events](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/events/)

[Americas](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/events/americas)[EMEA](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/events/emea/)[APAC](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/events/apac/)

###### [Education](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/education/)

[Blog](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/blog/)[Virtual Events &
Webinars](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/events/virtual-and-
webinars/)[Training](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/education/)[Cloud
101](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/cloud-newbie)

###### Popular Resources

[Security
Guidance](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/research/guidance/)[CCM](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/research/cloud-
controls-matrix/)[CAIQ](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/research/cloud-
controls-
matrix/)[STAR](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/star/)[GDPR](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/privacy/gdpr/)

###### [About CSA](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/about/)

[Contact Us](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/contact/)[Press
Releases](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/press-
releases/)[Affiliates](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/membership/current-
affiliates/)[Press Coverage](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/press-
coverage/)[Quality Policy](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/quality-policy/)

###### [Our Team](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/about/csa-staff/)

[Board of Directors](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/about/board-of-
directors/)[Management & Staff](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/about/csa-
staff/)[Careers](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/about/careers)

###### [Legal](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/legal/)

[Privacy Notice](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/legal/privacy-
notice/)[Terms & Conditions](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/legal/website-
terms-and-conditions/)

###### [Cloud Security Glossary](https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/cloud-
security-glossary/)

▴

