# Processed Content from URL: {'REFERENCE': 'https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/security-best-practices.html'}

[](/pdfs/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/s3-userguide.pdf#security-best-practices
"Open PDF")

[Documentation](/index.html)[Amazon Simple Storage Service
(S3)](/s3/index.html)[User Guide](Welcome.html)

Amazon S3 security best practicesAmazon S3 monitoring and auditing best
practicesMonitoring data security

# Security best practices for Amazon S3

Amazon S3 provides a number of security features to consider as you develop
and implement your own security policies. The following best practices are
general guidelines and don't represent a complete security solution. Because
these best practices might not be appropriate or sufficient for your
environment, treat them as helpful recommendations rather than prescriptions.

###### Topics

  * Amazon S3 security best practices
  * Amazon S3 monitoring and auditing best practices
  * Monitoring data security with managed AWS security services

## Amazon S3 security best practices

The following best practices for Amazon S3 can help prevent security
incidents.

**

Disable access control lists (ACLs)**

    

S3 Object Ownership is an Amazon S3 bucket-level setting that you can use to
control ownership of objects uploaded to your bucket and to disable or enable
ACLs. By default, Object Ownership is set to the Bucket owner enforced setting
and all ACLs are disabled. When ACLs are disabled, the bucket owner owns all
the objects in the bucket and manages access to data exclusively using access
management policies.

A majority of modern use cases in Amazon S3 no longer require the use of
[access control lists (ACLs)](./acl-overview.html). We recommend that you
disable ACLs, except in unusual circumstances where you must control access
for each object individually. To disable ACLs and take ownership of every
object in your bucket, apply the bucket owner enforced setting for S3 Object
Ownership. When you disable ACLs, you can easily maintain a bucket with
objects uploaded by different AWS accounts.

When ACLs are disabled access control for your data is based on policies, such
as the following:

  * AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) user policies

  * S3 bucket policies

  * Virtual private cloud (VPC) endpoint policies

  * AWS Organizations service control policies (SCPs)

  * AWS Organizations resource control policies (RCPs)

Disabling ACLs simplifies permissions management and auditing. ACLs are
disabled for new buckets by default. You can also disable ACLs for existing
buckets. If you have an existing bucket that already has objects in it, after
you disable ACLs, the object and bucket ACLs are no longer part of the access-
evaluation process. Instead, access is granted or denied on the basis of
policies.

Before you disable ACLs, make sure that you do the following:

  * Review your bucket policy to ensure that it covers all the ways that you intend to grant access to your bucket outside of your account.

  * Reset your bucket ACL to the default (full control to the bucket owner).

After you disable ACLs, the following behaviors occur:

  * Your bucket accepts only `PUT` requests that do not specify an ACL or `PUT` requests with bucket owner full control ACLs. These ACLs include the `bucket-owner-full-control` canned ACL or equivalent forms of this ACL that are expressed in XML.

  * Existing applications that support bucket owner full control ACLs see no impact. 

  * `PUT` requests that contain other ACLs (for example, custom grants to certain AWS accounts) fail and return an HTTP status code `400 (Bad Request)` with the error code `AccessControlListNotSupported`.

For more information, see [Controlling ownership of objects and disabling ACLs
for your bucket](./about-object-ownership.html).

**

Ensure that your Amazon S3 buckets use the correct policies and are not
publicly accessible**

    

Unless you explicitly require anyone on the internet to be able to read or
write to your S3 bucket, make sure that your S3 bucket is not public. The
following are some of the steps that you can take to block public access:

  * Use S3 Block Public Access. With S3 Block Public Access, you can easily set up centralized controls to limit public access to your Amazon S3 resources. These centralized controls are enforced regardless of how the resources are created. For more information, see [Blocking public access to your Amazon S3 storage](./access-control-block-public-access.html).

  * Identify Amazon S3 bucket policies that allow a wildcard identity such as `"Principal": "*"` (which effectively means "anyone"). Also look for policies that allow a wildcard action `"*"` (which effectively allows the user to perform any action in the Amazon S3 bucket).

  * Similarly, look for Amazon S3 bucket access control lists (ACLs) that provide read, write, or full-access to "Everyone" or "Any authenticated AWS user." 

  * Use the `ListBuckets` API operation to scan all of your Amazon S3 buckets. Then use `GetBucketAcl`, `GetBucketWebsite`, and `GetBucketPolicy` to determine whether each bucket has compliant access controls and a compliant configuration.

  * Use [AWS Trusted Advisor](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awssupport/latest/user/getting-started.html#trusted-advisor) to inspect your Amazon S3 implementation.

  * Consider implementing ongoing detective controls by using the [s3-bucket-public-read-prohibited](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/s3-bucket-public-read-prohibited.html) and [s3-bucket-public-write-prohibited](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/s3-bucket-public-write-prohibited.html) managed AWS Config Rules.

For more information, see [Identity and Access Management for Amazon
S3](./security-iam.html).

**

Implement least privilege access**

    

When granting permissions, you decide who is getting what permissions to which
Amazon S3 resources. You enable specific actions that you want to allow on
those resources. Therefore, we recommend that you grant only the permissions
that are required to perform a task. Implementing least privilege access is
fundamental in reducing security risk and the impact that could result from
errors or malicious intent.

The following tools are available to implement least privilege access:

  * [Policy actions for Amazon S3](./security_iam_service-with-iam.html#security_iam_service-with-iam-id-based-policies-actions) and [Permissions Boundaries for IAM Entities](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies_boundaries.html)

  * [How Amazon S3 works with IAM](./security_iam_service-with-iam.html)

  * [Access control list (ACL) overview](./acl-overview.html)

For guidance on what to consider when choosing one or more of the preceding
mechanisms, see [Identity and Access Management for Amazon S3](./security-
iam.html).

**

Use IAM roles for applications and AWS services that require Amazon S3
access**

    

In order for applications running on Amazon EC2 or other AWS services to
access Amazon S3 resources, they must include valid AWS credentials in their
AWS API requests. We recommend not storing AWS credentials directly in the
application or Amazon EC2 instance. These are long-term credentials that are
not automatically rotated and could have a significant business impact if they
are compromised.

Instead, use an IAM role to manage temporary credentials for applications or
services that need to access Amazon S3. When you use a role, you don't have to
distribute long-term credentials (such as a username and password or access
keys) to an Amazon EC2 instance or AWS service, such as AWS Lambda. The role
supplies temporary permissions that applications can use when they make calls
to other AWS resources.

For more information, see the following topics in the _IAM User Guide_ :

  * [IAM Roles](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles.html)

  * [Common Scenarios for Roles: Users, Applications, and Services](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_common-scenarios.html)

**

Consider encryption of data at rest**

    

You have the following options for protecting data at rest in Amazon S3:

  * **Server-side encryption** â All Amazon S3 buckets have encryption configured by default, and all new objects that are uploaded to an S3 bucket are automatically encrypted at rest. Server-side encryption with Amazon S3 managed keys (SSE-S3) is the default encryption configuration for every bucket in Amazon S3. To use a different type of encryption, you can either specify the type of server-side encryption to use in your S3 `PUT` requests, or you can set the default encryption configuration in the destination bucket. 

Amazon S3 also provides these server-side encryption options:

    * Server-side encryption with AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) keys (SSE-KMS) 

    * Dual-layer server-side encryption with AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) keys (DSSE-KMS)

    * Server-side encryption with customer-provided keys (SSE-C)

For more information, see [Protecting data with server-side
encryption](./serv-side-encryption.html).

  * **Client-side encryption** â Encrypt data client-side and upload the encrypted data to Amazon S3. In this case, you manage the encryption process, the encryption keys, and related tools. As with server-side encryption, client-side encryption can help reduce risk by encrypting the data with a key that is stored in a different mechanism than the mechanism that stores the data itself. 

Amazon S3 provides multiple client-side encryption options. For more
information, see [Protecting data by using client-side
encryption](./UsingClientSideEncryption.html).

**

Enforce encryption of data in transit**

    

You can use HTTPS (TLS) to help prevent potential attackers from eavesdropping
on or manipulating network traffic by using person-in-the-middle or similar
attacks. We recommend allowing only encrypted connections over HTTPS (TLS) by
using the
[aws:SecureTransport](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies_elements_condition_operators.html#Conditions_Boolean)
condition in your Amazon S3 bucket policies. For more information, see the
example S3 bucket policy [Managing access based on HTTP or HTTPS
requests](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/example-
bucket-policies.html#example-bucket-policies-HTTP-HTTPS). In addition to
denying HTTP requests, we recommend that you set Amazon CloudWatch alarms on
`tlsDetails.tlsVersion NOT EXISTS` that alert you if HTTP access attempts are
made on your content. For more information on how to configure Amazon
CloudWatch alarms, see [Creating CloudWatch alarms for CloudTrail events:
examples](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/cloudwatch-
alarms-for-cloudtrail.html) and [CloudTrail record
contents](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/cloudtrail-
event-reference-record-contents.html) in the _AWS CloudTrail User Guide_.

###### Important

We recommend that your application not pin Amazon S3 TLS certificates as AWS
doesnât support pinning of publicly-trusted certificates. S3 automatically
renews certificates and renewal can happen any time before certificate expiry.
Renewing a certificate generates a new public-private key pair. If youâve
pinned an S3 certificate which has been recently renewed with a new public
key, you wonât be able to connect to S3 until your application uses the new
certificate.

Also consider implementing ongoing detective controls by using the [s3-bucket-
ssl-requests-
only](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/s3-bucket-ssl-
requests-only.html) managed AWS Config rule.

**

Consider using S3 Object Lock**

    

With S3 Object Lock, you can store objects by using a "Write Once Read Many"
(WORM) model. S3 Object Lock can help prevent accidental or inappropriate
deletion of data. For example, you can use S3 Object Lock to help protect your
AWS CloudTrail logs.

For more information, see [Locking objects with Object Lock](./object-
lock.html).

**

Enable S3 Versioning**

    

S3 Versioning is a means of keeping multiple variants of an object in the same
bucket. You can use versioning to preserve, retrieve, and restore every
version of every object stored in your bucket. With versioning, you can easily
recover from both unintended user actions and application failures.

Also consider implementing ongoing detective controls by using the [s3-bucket-
versioning-
enabled](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/s3-bucket-
versioning-enabled.html) managed AWS Config rule.

For more information, see [Retaining multiple versions of objects with S3
Versioning](./Versioning.html).

**

Consider using S3 Cross-Region Replication**

    

Although Amazon S3 stores your data across multiple geographically diverse
Availability Zones by default, compliance requirements might dictate that you
store data at even greater distances. With S3 Cross-Region Replication (CRR),
you can replicate data between distant AWS Regions to help satisfy these
requirements. CRR enables automatic, asynchronous copying of objects across
buckets in different AWS Regions. For more information, see [Replicating
objects within and across Regions](./replication.html).

###### Note

CRR requires both the source and destination S3 buckets to have versioning
enabled.

Also consider implementing ongoing detective controls by using the [s3-bucket-
replication-
enabled](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/s3-bucket-
replication-enabled.html) managed AWS Config rule.

**

Consider using VPC endpoints for Amazon S3 access**

    

A virtual private cloud (VPC) endpoint for Amazon S3 is a logical entity
within a VPC that allows connectivity only to Amazon S3. VPC endpoints can
help prevent traffic from traversing the open internet.

VPC endpoints for Amazon S3 provide multiple ways to control access to your
Amazon S3 data:

  * You can control the requests, users, or groups that are allowed through a specific VPC endpoint by using S3 bucket policies.

  * You can control which VPCs or VPC endpoints have access to your S3 buckets by using S3 bucket policies.

  * You can help prevent data exfiltration by using a VPC that does not have an internet gateway.

For more information, see [Controlling access from VPC endpoints with bucket
policies](./example-bucket-policies-vpc-endpoint.html).

**

Use managed AWS security services to monitor data security**

    

Several managed AWS security services can help you identify, assess, and
monitor security and compliance risks for your Amazon S3 data. These services
can also help you protect your data from those risks. These services include
automated detection, monitoring, and protection capabilities that are designed
to scale from Amazon S3 resources for a single AWS account to resources for
organizations spanning thousands of accounts.

For more information, see Monitoring data security with managed AWS security
services.

## Amazon S3 monitoring and auditing best practices

The following best practices for Amazon S3 can help detect potential security
weaknesses and incidents.

**

Identify and audit all of your Amazon S3 buckets**

    

Identification of your IT assets is a crucial aspect of governance and
security. You need to have visibility of all your Amazon S3 resources to
assess their security posture and take action on potential areas of weakness.
To audit your resources, we recommend doing the following:

  * Use Tag Editor to identify and tag security-sensitive or audit-sensitive resources, then use those tags when you need to search for these resources. For more information, see [Searching for Resources to Tag](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ARG/latest/userguide/tag-editor.html) in the _Tagging AWS Resources User Guide_. 

  * Use S3 Inventory to audit and report on the replication and encryption status of your objects for business, compliance, and regulatory needs. For more information, see [Cataloging and analyzing your data with S3 Inventory](./storage-inventory.html).

  * Create resource groups for your Amazon S3 resources. For more information, see [What are resource groups?](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ARG/latest/userguide/welcome.html) in the _AWS Resource Groups User Guide_.

**

Implement monitoring by using AWS monitoring tools**

    

Monitoring is an important part of maintaining the reliability, security,
availability, and performance of Amazon S3 and your AWS solutions. AWS
provides several tools and services to help you monitor Amazon S3 and your
other AWS services. For example, you can monitor Amazon CloudWatch metrics for
Amazon S3, particularly the `PutRequests`, `GetRequests`, `4xxErrors`, and
`DeleteRequests` metrics. For more information, see [Monitoring metrics with
Amazon CloudWatch](./cloudwatch-monitoring.html) and [Logging and monitoring
in Amazon S3](./monitoring-overview.html).

For a second example, see [Example: Amazon S3 Bucket
Activity](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/cloudwatch-
alarms-for-cloudtrail.html#cloudwatch-alarms-for-cloudtrail-s3-bucket-
activity). This example describes how to create a CloudWatch alarm that is
triggered when an Amazon S3 API call is made to `PUT` or `DELETE` a bucket
policy, a bucket lifecycle, or a bucket replication configuration, or to `PUT`
a bucket ACL.

**

Enable Amazon S3 server access logging**

    

Server access logging provides detailed records of the requests that are made
to a bucket. Server access logs can assist you in security and access audits,
help you learn about your customer base, and understand your Amazon S3 bill.
For instructions on enabling server access logging, see [Logging requests with
server access logging](./ServerLogs.html).

Also consider implementing ongoing detective controls by using the [s3-bucket-
logging-
enabled](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/s3-bucket-
logging-enabled.html) AWS Config managed rule.

**

Use AWS CloudTrail**

    

AWS CloudTrail provides a record of actions taken by a user, a role, or an AWS
service in Amazon S3. You can use information collected by CloudTrail to
determine the following:

  * The request that was made to Amazon S3

  * The IP address from which the request was made

  * Who made the request

  * When the request was made

  * Additional details about the request

For example, you can identify CloudTrail entries for `PUT` actions that affect
data access, in particular `PutBucketAcl`, `PutObjectAcl`, `PutBucketPolicy`,
and `PutBucketWebsite`.

When you set up your AWS account, CloudTrail is enabled by default. You can
view recent events in the CloudTrail console. To create an ongoing record of
activity and events for your Amazon S3 buckets, you can create a trail in the
CloudTrail console. For more information, see [Logging data
events](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/logging-
data-events-with-cloudtrail.html) in the _AWS CloudTrail User Guide_.

When you create a trail, you can configure CloudTrail to log data events. Data
events are records of resource operations performed on or within a resource.
In Amazon S3, data events record object-level API activity for individual
buckets. CloudTrail supports a subset of Amazon S3 object-level API
operations, such as `GetObject`, `DeleteObject`, and `PutObject`. For more
information about how CloudTrail works with Amazon S3, see [Logging Amazon S3
API calls using AWS CloudTrail](./cloudtrail-logging.html). In the Amazon S3
console, you can also configure your S3 buckets to [Enabling CloudTrail event
logging for S3 buckets and objects](./enable-cloudtrail-logging-for-s3.html).

AWS Config provides a managed rule (`cloudtrail-s3-dataevents-enabled`) that
you can use to confirm that at least one CloudTrail trail is logging data
events for your S3 buckets. For more information, see
[cloudtrail-s3-dataevents-
enabled](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/cloudtrail-s3-dataevents-
enabled.html) in the _AWS Config Developer Guide_.

**

Enable AWS Config**

    

Several of the best practices listed in this topic suggest creating AWS Config
rules. AWS Config helps you to assess, audit, and evaluate the configurations
of your AWS resources. AWS Config monitors resource configurations so that you
can evaluate the recorded configurations against the desired secure
configurations. With AWS Config, you can do the following:

  * Review changes in configurations and relationships between AWS resources

  * Investigate detailed resource-configuration histories

  * Determine your overall compliance against the configurations specified in your internal guidelines

Using AWS Config can help you simplify compliance auditing, security analysis,
change management, and operational troubleshooting. For more information, see
[Setting Up AWS Config with the
Console](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/gs-
console.html) in the _AWS Config Developer Guide_. When specifying the
resource types to record, ensure that you include Amazon S3 resources.

###### Important

AWS Config managed rules only supports general purpose buckets when evaluating
Amazon S3 resources. AWS Config doesnât record configuration changes for
directory buckets. For more information, see [AWS Config Managed
Rules](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/evaluate-
config_use-managed-rules.html) and [List of AWS Config Managed
Rules](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/managed-rules-
by-aws-config.html) in the _AWS Config Developer Guide_.

For an example of how to use AWS Config, see [How to Use AWS Config to Monitor
for and Respond to Amazon S3 Buckets Allowing Public
Access](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/security/how-to-use-aws-config-to-
monitor-for-and-respond-to-amazon-s3-buckets-allowing-public-access/) on the
_AWS Security Blog_.

**

Use S3 Storage Lens**

    

S3 Storage Lens is a cloud-storage analytics feature that you can use to gain
organization-wide visibility into object-storage usage and activity. S3
Storage Lens also analyzes metrics to deliver contextual recommendations that
you can use to optimize storage costs and apply best practices for protecting
your data.

With S3 Storage Lens, you can use metrics to generate summary insights, such
as finding out how much storage you have across your entire organization or
which are the fastest-growing buckets and prefixes. You can also use S3
Storage Lens metrics to identify cost-optimization opportunities, implement
data-protection and access-management best practices, and improve the
performance of application workloads.

For example, you can identify buckets that don't have S3 Lifecycle rules to
abort incomplete multipart uploads that are more than 7 days old. You can also
identify buckets that aren't following data-protection best practices, such as
using S3 Replication or S3 Versioning. For more information, see
[Understanding Amazon S3 Storage
Lens](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/storage_lens_basics_metrics_recommendations.html).

**

Monitor AWS security advisories**

    

We recommend that you regularly check the security advisories posted in
Trusted Advisor for your AWS account. In particular, look for warnings about
Amazon S3 buckets with "open access permissions." You can do this
programmatically by using [describe-trusted-advisor-
checks](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/support/describe-
trusted-advisor-checks.html).

Further, actively monitor the primary email address that's registered to each
of your AWS accounts. AWS uses this email address to contact you about
emerging security issues that might affect you.

AWS operational issues with broad impact are posted on the [AWS Health
Dashboard - Service health](https://status.aws.amazon.com/). Operational
issues are also posted to individual accounts through the AWS Health
Dashboard. For more information, see the [AWS Health
documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/health/).

## Monitoring data security with managed AWS security services

Several managed AWS security services can help you identify, assess, and
monitor security and compliance risks for your Amazon S3 data. They can also
help you protect your data from those risks. These services include automated
detection, monitoring, and protection capabilities that are designed to scale
from Amazon S3 resources for a single AWS account to resources for
organizations spanning thousands of AWS accounts.

AWS detection and response services can help you identify potential security
misconfigurations, threats, or unexpected behaviors, so that you can quickly
respond to potentially unauthorized or malicious activity in your environment.
AWS data protection services can help you monitor and protect your data,
accounts, and workloads from unauthorized access. They can also help you
discover sensitive data, such as personally identifiable information (PII), in
your Amazon S3 data estate.

To help you identify and evaluate data security and compliance risks, managed
AWS security services generate findings to notify you of potential security
events or issues with your Amazon S3 data. The findings provide relevant
details that you can use to investigate, assess, and act upon these risks
according to your incident-response workflows and policies. You can access
findings data directly by using each service. You can also send the data to
other applications, services, and systems, such as your security incident and
event management system (SIEM).

To monitor the security of your Amazon S3 data, consider using these managed
AWS security services.

**

Amazon GuardDuty**

    

Amazon GuardDuty is a threat-detection service that continuously monitors your
AWS accounts and workloads for malicious activity and delivers detailed
security findings for visibility and remediation.

With the S3 protection feature in GuardDuty, you can configure GuardDuty to
analyze AWS CloudTrail management and data events for your Amazon S3
resources. GuardDuty then monitors those events for malicious and suspicious
activity. To inform the analysis and identify potential security risks,
GuardDuty uses threat-intelligence feeds and machine learning.

GuardDuty can monitor different kinds of activity for your Amazon S3
resources. For example, CloudTrail management events for Amazon S3 include
bucket-level operations, such as `ListBuckets`, `DeleteBucket`, and
`PutBucketReplication`. CloudTrail data events for Amazon S3 include object-
level operations, such as `GetObject`, `ListObjects`, and `PutObject`. If
GuardDuty detects anomalous or potentially malicious activity, it generates a
finding to notify you.

For more information, see [Amazon S3 Protection in Amazon
GuardDuty](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/guardduty/latest/ug/s3-protection.html)
in the _Amazon GuardDuty User Guide_.

**Amazon Detective**

    

Amazon Detective simplifies the investigative process and helps you conduct
faster, more effective security investigations. Detective provides prebuilt
data aggregations, summaries, and context that can help you analyze and assess
the nature and extent of possible security issues.

Detective automatically extracts time-based events, such as API calls from AWS
CloudTrail and Amazon VPC Flow Logs for your AWS resources. It also ingests
findings generated by Amazon GuardDuty. Detective then uses machine learning,
statistical analysis, and graph theory to generate visualizations that help
you conduct effective security investigations more quickly.

These visualizations provide a unified, interactive view of resource behaviors
and the interactions between them over time. You can explore this behavior
graph to examine potentially malicious actions, such as failed login attempts
or suspicious API calls. You can also see how these actions affect resources,
such as S3 buckets and objects.

For more information, see the [Amazon Detective Administration
Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/detective/latest/adminguide/what-is-
detective.html).

**IAM Access Analyzer**

    

AWS Identity and Access Management Access Analyzer (IAM Access Analyzer) can
help you identify resources that are shared with an external entity. You can
also use IAM Access Analyzer to validate IAM policies against policy grammar
and best practices, and generate IAM policies based on access activity in your
AWS CloudTrail logs.

IAM Access Analyzer uses logic-based reasoning to analyze resource policies in
your AWS environment, such as bucket policies. With IAM Access Analyzer for
S3, you're alerted when an S3 bucket is configured to allow access to anyone
on the internet or other AWS accounts, including accounts outside your
organization. For example, IAM Access Analyzer for S3 can report that a bucket
has read or write access provided through a bucket access control list (ACL),
a bucket policy, a Multi-Region Access Point policy, or an access point
policy. For each public or shared bucket, you receive findings that indicate
the source and level of public or shared access. With these findings, you can
take immediate and precise corrective action to restore bucket access to what
you intended.

For more information, see [Reviewing bucket access using IAM Access Analyzer
for S3](./access-analyzer.html).

**

Amazon Macie**

    

Amazon Macie is a security service that discovers sensitive data by using
machine learning and pattern matching. Macie provides visibility into data
security risks, and enables automated protection against those risks. With
Macie, you can automate the discovery and reporting of sensitive data in your
Amazon S3 data estate to gain a better understanding of the data that your
organization stores in S3.

To detect sensitive data with Macie, you can use built-in criteria and
techniques that are designed to detect a large and growing list of sensitive
data types for many countries and regions. These sensitive data types include
multiple types of personally identifiable information (PII), financial data,
and credentials data. You can also use custom criteria that you
defineâregular expressions that define text patterns to match and,
optionally, character sequences and proximity rules that refine the results.

If Macie detects sensitive data in an S3 object, Macie generates a security
finding to notify you. This finding provides information about the affected
object, the types and number of occurrences of the sensitive data that Macie
found, and additional details to help you investigate the affected S3 bucket
and object. For more information, see the [Amazon Macie User
Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/macie/latest/user/what-is-macie.html).

**AWS Security Hub**

    

AWS Security Hub is a security-posture management service that performs
security best-practice checks, aggregates alerts and findings from multiple
sources into a single format, and enables automated remediation.

Security Hub collects and provides security findings data from integrated AWS
Partner Network security solutions and AWS services, including Amazon
Detective, Amazon GuardDuty, IAM Access Analyzer, and Amazon Macie. It also
generates its own findings by running continuous, automated security checks
based on AWS best practices and supported industry standards.

Security Hub then correlates and consolidates findings across providers to
help you prioritize and process the most significant findings. It also
provides support for custom actions, which you can use to invoke responses or
remediation actions for specific classes of findings.

With Security Hub, you can assess the security and compliance status of your
Amazon S3 resources, and you can do so as part of a broader analysis of your
organization's security posture in individual AWS Regions and across multiple
Regions. This includes analyzing security trends and identifying the highest-
priority security issues. You can also aggregate findings from multiple AWS
Regions, and monitor and process aggregated findings data from a single
Region.

For more information, see [Amazon Simple Storage Service
controls](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/securityhub/latest/userguide/s3-controls.html)
in the _AWS Security Hub User Guide_.

![Warning](https://d1ge0kk1l5kms0.cloudfront.net/images/G/01/webservices/console/warning.png)
**Javascript is disabled or is unavailable in your browser.**

To use the Amazon Web Services Documentation, Javascript must be enabled.
Please refer to your browser's Help pages for instructions.

[Document Conventions](/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

Security

Data protection

Did this page help you? - Yes

Thanks for letting us know we're doing a good job!

If you've got a moment, please tell us what we did right so we can do more of
it.

Did this page help you? - No

Thanks for letting us know this page needs work. We're sorry we let you down.

If you've got a moment, please tell us how we can make the documentation
better.

