# Processed Content from URL: {'REFERENCE': 'https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/'}

  * [ Sign In ](https://www.cloudconformity.com/identity/sign-in.html)
  * [ Buy ](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-g232pyu6l55l4?applicationId=AWSMPContessa)
  * [ Free Trial  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/SignUp.screen?)

* * *

[ ![Logo of Trend
Micro](/cloudoneconformity/assets/v2/images/common/logo.svg?1740122325604045119)
](https://trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/)

  * Knowledge Base 

    * [ AWS ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/)
    * [ Azure ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/azure/)
    * [ GCP ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/gcp/)
    * [ Conformity ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/cloudconformity/)
    * [ Alibaba Cloud ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/alibaba-cloud/)

  * Products 

    * [ Cloud Oneâ¢ - Conformity ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-conformity)
    * [ All Cloud Oneâ¢ Services ](https://www.trendmicro.com/hybridcloud)

  * [ Help  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/docs/conformity/)
  * 

  * Knowledge Base 

    * [ AWS  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/)
    * [ Azure  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/azure/)
    * [ GCP  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/gcp/)
    * [ Conformity  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/cloudconformity/)
    * [ Alibaba Cloud  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/alibaba-cloud/)

  * Products 

    * [ Cloud Oneâ¢ - Conformity  ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-conformity)
    * [ All Cloud Oneâ¢ Services  ](https://www.trendmicro.com/hybridcloud)

  * [ Help  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/docs/conformity/)

  * [ Sign In  ](https://www.cloudconformity.com/identity/sign-in.html)
  * [ Buy  ](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-g232pyu6l55l4?applicationId=AWSMPContessa)
  * [ Free Trial  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/SignUp.screen?)

Use the Conformity Knowledge Base AI to help improve your Cloud Posture [ ð¬
Conformity Knowledge Base AI >
](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/ai-assistant-kb.html)

  * [Knowledge Base](/knowledge-base/ "Best practice knowledge base homepage")
  * [Amazon Web Services](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ "Best practice knowledge base for Amazon Web Services")
  * Amazon S3

# AWS S3 Best Practices

AWS

##  Best practice rules for Amazon S3

AWS Simple Storage Service (S3) is a storage device for the Internet. It has a
web service that makes storage and retrieval simple at any time, from anywhere
on the web, regardless of the amount of data. S3 is designed to make web-scale
computing simple for developers by providing highly scalable, fast, reliable
and inexpensive data storage infrastructure.

  * [Amazon Macie Finding Statistics for S3](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/macie-finding-statistics-for-s3.html)

Capture summary statistics about Amazon Macie security findings on a per-S3
bucket basis.

  * [Configure Different S3 Bucket for Server Access Logging Storage](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/server-access-log-storage-different-bucket.html)

Ensure that Amazon S3 Server Access Logging uses a different bucket for
storing access logs.

  * [Configure S3 Object Ownership](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/enforce-s3-object-ownership.html)

Ensure that S3 Object Ownership is configured to allow you to take ownership
of S3 objects.

  * [DNS Compliant S3 Bucket Names](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/dns-compliant-buckets-names.html)

Ensure that Amazon S3 buckets always use DNS-compliant bucket names.

  * [Deny S3 Log Delivery Group Write Permission on the Source Bucket](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/deny-log-delivery-group-write-permission.html)

Ensure that the S3 Log Delivery Group write permissions are denied for the S3
source bucket.

  * [Enable S3 Block Public Access for AWS Accounts](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/account-public-access-block.html)

Ensure that Amazon S3 public access is blocked at the AWS account level for
data protection.

  * [Enable S3 Block Public Access for S3 Buckets](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/bucket-public-access-block.html)

Ensure that Amazon S3 public access is blocked at the S3 bucket level for data
protection.

  * [Enable S3 Bucket Keys](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/configure-s3-bucket-keys.html)

Ensure that Amazon S3 buckets are using S3 bucket keys to optimize service
costs.

  * [S3 Bucket Authenticated Users 'FULL_CONTROL' Access](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/s3-bucket-authenticated-users-full-control-access.html)

Ensure that S3 buckets do not allow FULL_CONTROL access to AWS authenticated
users via ACLs.

  * [S3 Bucket Authenticated Users 'READ' Access](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/s3-bucket-authenticated-users-read-access.html)

Ensure that S3 buckets do not allow READ access to AWS authenticated users via
ACLs.

  * [S3 Bucket Authenticated Users 'READ_ACP' Access](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/s3-bucket-authenticated-users-read-acp-access.html)

Ensure that S3 buckets do not allow READ_ACP access to AWS authenticated users
via ACLs.

  * [S3 Bucket Authenticated Users 'WRITE' Access](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/s3-bucket-authenticated-users-write-access.html)

Ensure that S3 buckets do not allow WRITE access to AWS authenticated users
via ACLs.

  * [S3 Bucket Authenticated Users 'WRITE_ACP' Access](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/s3-bucket-authenticated-users-write-acp-access.html)

Ensure that S3 buckets do not allow WRITE_ACP access to AWS authenticated
users via ACLs.

  * [S3 Bucket Default Encryption (Deprecated)](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/bucket-default-encryption.html)

Ensure that encryption at rest is enabled for your Amazon S3 buckets and their
data.

  * [S3 Bucket Logging Enabled](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/s3-bucket-logging-enabled.html)

Ensure S3 bucket access logging is enabled for security and access audits.

  * [S3 Bucket MFA Delete Enabled](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/s3-bucket-mfa-delete-enabled.html)

Ensure S3 buckets have an MFA-Delete policy to prevent deletion of files
without an MFA token.

  * [S3 Bucket Public 'FULL_CONTROL' Access](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/s3-bucket-public-full-control-access.html)

Ensure that your Amazon S3 buckets are not publicly exposed to the Internet.

  * [S3 Bucket Public 'READ' Access](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/s3-bucket-public-read-access.html)

Ensure that S3 buckets do not allow public READ access via Access Control
Lists (ACLs).

  * [S3 Bucket Public 'READ_ACP' Access](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/s3-bucket-public-read-acp-access.html)

Ensure that S3 buckets do not allow public READ_ACP access via Access Control
Lists (ACLs).

  * [S3 Bucket Public 'WRITE' ACL Access](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/s3-bucket-public-write-access.html)

Ensure S3 buckets donât allow public WRITE ACL access

  * [S3 Bucket Public 'WRITE_ACP' Access](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/s3-bucket-public-write-acp-access.html)

Ensure that S3 buckets do not allow public WRITE_ACP access via Access Control
Lists (ACLs).

  * [S3 Bucket Public Access Via Policy](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/s3-bucket-public-access-via-policy.html)

Ensure that Amazon S3 buckets do not allow public access via bucket policies.

  * [S3 Bucket Versioning Enabled](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/s3-bucket-versioning-enabled.html)

Ensure S3 bucket versioning is enabled for additional level of data
protection.

  * [S3 Buckets Encrypted with Customer-Provided CMKs](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/encrypted-with-kms-customer-master-keys.html)

Ensure that Amazon S3 buckets are encrypted with customer-provided KMS CMKs.

  * [S3 Buckets Lifecycle Configuration](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/lifecycle-configuration.html)

Ensure that AWS S3 buckets utilize lifecycle configurations to manage S3
objects during their lifetime.

  * [S3 Buckets with Website Hosting Configuration Enabled](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/buckets-with-website-configurations.html)

Ensure that the S3 buckets with website configuration are regularly reviewed
(informational).

  * [S3 Configuration Changes](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/configuration-changes.html)

AWS S3 configuration changes have been detected within your Amazon Web
Services account.

  * [S3 Cross Account Access](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/s3-cross-account-access.html)

Ensure that S3 buckets do not allow unknown cross-account access via bucket
policies.

  * [S3 Object Lock](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/object-lock.html)

Ensure that S3 buckets use Object Lock for data protection and/or regulatory
compliance.

  * [S3 Transfer Acceleration](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/transfer-acceleration.html)

Ensure that S3 buckets use the Transfer Acceleration feature for faster data
transfers.

  * [Secure Transport](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/secure-transport.html)

Ensure AWS S3 buckets enforce SSL to secure data in transit.

  * [Server Side Encryption](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/S3/server-side-encryption.html)

Ensure AWS S3 buckets enforce Server-Side Encryption (SSE)

* * *

Whether your cloud exploration is just starting to take shape, youâre mid-
way through a migration or youâre already running complex workloads in the
cloud, Conformity offers full visibility into your overall security and
governance posture across various standards and frameworks.

##  Continuous security & compliance for cloud environments. Grow and scale
your business with confidence

[ Try it for free  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/SignUp.screen?) [ Get
pricing  ](https://resources.trendmicro.com/cloud-one-conformity-pricing.html)

Products

  * [ Conformity ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-conformity)
  * [ Workload Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-workload)
  * [ Container Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-image)
  * [ File Storage Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-file)
  * [ Application Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-app)
  * [ Network Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-net)

Solutions For

  * [ Cloud Migration ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloud-migration-security)
  * [ Cloud Operational Excellence ](https://www.trendmicro.com/opexcellence)
  * [ Cloud Native App Development ](https://www.trendmicro.com/nativeappdev)
  * [ Data Center Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/security-data-center-virtualization)

Help

  * [ Help by Topic ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/docs/conformity/)
  * [ Help AI Assistant ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/ai-assistant-help.html)
  * [ API Documentation ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/docs/conformity/api-reference/)
  * [ Contact Us ](https://resources.trendmicro.com/Hybrid-Cloud-Security-Contact-Us.html)
  * [ Knowledge Base AI Assistant ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/ai-assistant-kb.html)

Company

  * [ About Us ](https://www.trendmicro.com/about)
  * [ Careers ](https://www.trendmicro.com/careers)
  * [ Newsroom ](https://www.trendmicro.com/newsroom)

Privacy and Protection

  * [ Terms and Conditions ](https://www.cloudconformity.com/terms-and-conditions.html)
  * [ Privacy Policy ](https://www.trendmicro.com/privacy)
  * [ Report a Security Vulnerability ](https://www.cloudconformity.com/responsible-disclosure.html)

[ ](https://www.facebook.com/TrendMicro/) [ ](https://twitter.com/trendmicro)
[ ](https://www.linkedin.com/company/trend-micro) [
](http://feeds.trendmicro.com/TrendMicroSimplySecurity) [
](https://www.youtube.com/user/TrendMicroInc)

Copyright Â© 2025 Trend Micro Incorporated. All rights reserved. Version
v1.188.9-381-g9c15e037

