# Processed Content from URL: {'REFERENCE': 'https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/VPC/'}

  * [ Sign In ](https://www.cloudconformity.com/identity/sign-in.html)
  * [ Buy ](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-g232pyu6l55l4?applicationId=AWSMPContessa)
  * [ Free Trial  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/SignUp.screen?)

* * *

[ ![Logo of Trend
Micro](/cloudoneconformity/assets/v2/images/common/logo.svg?1740361707617976185)
](https://trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/)

  * Knowledge Base 

    * [ AWS ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/)
    * [ Azure ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/azure/)
    * [ GCP ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/gcp/)
    * [ Conformity ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/cloudconformity/)
    * [ Alibaba Cloud ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/alibaba-cloud/)

  * Products 

    * [ Cloud Oneâ¢ - Conformity ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-conformity)
    * [ All Cloud Oneâ¢ Services ](https://www.trendmicro.com/hybridcloud)

  * [ Help  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/docs/conformity/)
  * 

  * Knowledge Base 

    * [ AWS  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/)
    * [ Azure  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/azure/)
    * [ GCP  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/gcp/)
    * [ Conformity  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/cloudconformity/)
    * [ Alibaba Cloud  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/alibaba-cloud/)

  * Products 

    * [ Cloud Oneâ¢ - Conformity  ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-conformity)
    * [ All Cloud Oneâ¢ Services  ](https://www.trendmicro.com/hybridcloud)

  * [ Help  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/docs/conformity/)

  * [ Sign In  ](https://www.cloudconformity.com/identity/sign-in.html)
  * [ Buy  ](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-g232pyu6l55l4?applicationId=AWSMPContessa)
  * [ Free Trial  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/SignUp.screen?)

Use the Conformity Knowledge Base AI to help improve your Cloud Posture [ ð¬
Conformity Knowledge Base AI >
](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/ai-assistant-kb.html)

  * [Knowledge Base](/knowledge-base/ "Best practice knowledge base homepage")
  * [Amazon Web Services](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ "Best practice knowledge base for Amazon Web Services")
  * Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)

# AWS VPC Best Practices

AWS

##  Best practice rules for Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)

AWS Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) provides you with an isolated section within
the AWS cloud to launch resources in a virtual network tailored to your
organization. Implementing a VPC provides you with complete control of your
virtual network, including configuration of network gateways and route tables,
and the ability to select your IP range. Using a virtual private cloud adds
another layer of security for your infrastructure, for example, by defining
which resources within your AWS account have access to the internet.

  * [AWS VPC Peering Connections Route Tables Access](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/VPC/vpc-peering-access.html)

Ensure that the Amazon VPC peering connection configuration is compliant with
the desired routing policy.

  * [AWS VPN Tunnel State](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/VPC/vpn-tunnel-up.html)

Ensure the state of your AWS Virtual Private Network (VPN) tunnels is UP

  * [Ineffective Network ACL DENY Rules](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/VPC/network-acl-deny-rules.html)

Ensure that Amazon Network ACL DENY rules are effective within the VPC
configuration.

  * [Managed NAT Gateway in Use](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/VPC/managed-nat-gateway-in-use.html)

Ensure that the Managed NAT Gateway service is enabled for high availability
(HA).

  * [Specific Gateway Attached To Specific VPC](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/VPC/gateways.html)

Ensure that a specific Internet/NAT gateway is attached to a specific VPC.

  * [Unrestricted Inbound Traffic on Remote Server Administration Ports](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/VPC/acl-inbound-access-on-admin-ports.html)

Ensure that no Network ACL (NACL) allows unrestricted inbound traffic on TCP
ports 22 and 3389.

  * [Unrestricted Network ACL Inbound Traffic](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/VPC/network-acl-inbound-traffic-all-ports.html)

Ensure that no Network ACL (NACL) allows inbound/ingress traffic from all
ports.

  * [Unrestricted Network ACL Outbound Traffic](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/VPC/network-acl-outbound-traffic-all-ports.html)

Ensure that no Network ACL (NACL) allows outbound/egress traffic to all ports.

  * [Unused VPC Internet Gateways](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/VPC/unused-internet-gateway.html)

Ensure unused VPC Internet Gateways and Egress-Only Internet Gateways are
removed to follow best practices.

  * [Unused Virtual Private Gateways](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/VPC/unused-virtual-private-gateway.html)

Ensure unused Virtual Private Gateways (VGWs) are removed to follow best
practices.

  * [VPC Endpoint Cross Account Access](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/VPC/endpoint-cross-account-access.html)

Ensure Amazon VPC endpoints don't allow unknown cross account access.

  * [VPC Endpoint Exposed](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/VPC/endpoint-exposed.html)

Ensure Amazon VPC endpoints aren't exposed to everyone.

  * [VPC Endpoints In Use](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/VPC/vpc-endpoints-in-use.html)

Ensure that VPC endpoints are being used to connect your VPC to another AWS
cloud service.

  * [VPC Flow Logs Enabled](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/VPC/vpc-flow-logs-enabled.html)

Ensure VPC flow logging is enabled in all VPCs.

  * [VPC Naming Conventions](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/VPC/vpc-naming-conventions.html)

Follow proper naming conventions for Virtual Private Clouds.

  * [VPC Peering Connections To Accounts Outside AWS Organization](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/VPC/vpc-peering-connections-to-accounts-outside-aws-organizations.html)

Ensure VPC peering communication is only between AWS accounts, members of the
same AWS Organization.

  * [VPN Tunnel Redundancy](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/VPC/vpn-tunnel-redundancy.html)

Ensure AWS VPNs have always two tunnels active in order to enable redundancy.

* * *

Whether your cloud exploration is just starting to take shape, youâre mid-
way through a migration or youâre already running complex workloads in the
cloud, Conformity offers full visibility into your overall security and
governance posture across various standards and frameworks.

##  Continuous security & compliance for cloud environments. Grow and scale
your business with confidence

[ Try it for free  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/SignUp.screen?) [ Get
pricing  ](https://resources.trendmicro.com/cloud-one-conformity-pricing.html)

Products

  * [ Conformity ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-conformity)
  * [ Workload Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-workload)
  * [ Container Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-image)
  * [ File Storage Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-file)
  * [ Application Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-app)
  * [ Network Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-net)

Solutions For

  * [ Cloud Migration ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloud-migration-security)
  * [ Cloud Operational Excellence ](https://www.trendmicro.com/opexcellence)
  * [ Cloud Native App Development ](https://www.trendmicro.com/nativeappdev)
  * [ Data Center Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/security-data-center-virtualization)

Help

  * [ Help by Topic ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/docs/conformity/)
  * [ Help AI Assistant ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/ai-assistant-help.html)
  * [ API Documentation ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/docs/conformity/api-reference/)
  * [ Contact Us ](https://resources.trendmicro.com/Hybrid-Cloud-Security-Contact-Us.html)
  * [ Knowledge Base AI Assistant ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/ai-assistant-kb.html)

Company

  * [ About Us ](https://www.trendmicro.com/about)
  * [ Careers ](https://www.trendmicro.com/careers)
  * [ Newsroom ](https://www.trendmicro.com/newsroom)

Privacy and Protection

  * [ Terms and Conditions ](https://www.cloudconformity.com/terms-and-conditions.html)
  * [ Privacy Policy ](https://www.trendmicro.com/privacy)
  * [ Report a Security Vulnerability ](https://www.cloudconformity.com/responsible-disclosure.html)

[ ](https://www.facebook.com/TrendMicro/) [ ](https://twitter.com/trendmicro)
[ ](https://www.linkedin.com/company/trend-micro) [
](http://feeds.trendmicro.com/TrendMicroSimplySecurity) [
](https://www.youtube.com/user/TrendMicroInc)

Copyright Â© 2025 Trend Micro Incorporated. All rights reserved. Version
v1.188.9-383-geea80320

