# Processed Content from URL: {'REFERENCE': 'https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/developerguide/ct-logging.html'}

[](/pdfs/amazonswf/latest/developerguide/swf-dg.pdf#ct-logging "Open PDF")

[Documentation](/index.html)[Amazon Simple Workflow
Service](/swf/index.html)[Developer Guide](swf-welcome.html)

Data events in CloudTrailManagement events in CloudTrailExample event

# Recording API calls with AWS CloudTrail

Amazon Simple Workflow Service is integrated with [AWS
CloudTrail](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/cloudtrail-
user-guide.html), a service that provides a record of actions taken by a user,
role, or an AWS service. CloudTrail captures all API calls for Amazon SWF as
events. The calls captured include calls from the Amazon SWF console and code
calls to the Amazon SWF API operations. Using the information collected by
CloudTrail, you can determine the request that was made to Amazon SWF, the IP
address from which the request was made, when it was made, and additional
details.

Every event or log entry contains information about who generated the request.
The identity information helps you determine the following:

  * Whether the request was made with root user or user credentials.

  * Whether the request was made on behalf of an IAM Identity Center user.

  * Whether the request was made with temporary security credentials for a role or federated user.

  * Whether the request was made by another AWS service.

CloudTrail is active in your AWS account when you create the account and you
automatically have access to the CloudTrail **Event history**. The CloudTrail
**Event history** provides a viewable, searchable, downloadable, and immutable
record of the past 90 days of recorded management events in an AWS Region. For
more information, see [Working with CloudTrail Event
history](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/view-
cloudtrail-events.html) in the _AWS CloudTrail User Guide_. There are no
CloudTrail charges for viewing the **Event history**.

For an ongoing record of events in your AWS account past 90 days, create a
trail or a [CloudTrail
Lake](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/cloudtrail-
lake.html) event data store.

**CloudTrail trails**

    

A _trail_ enables CloudTrail to deliver log files to an Amazon S3 bucket. All
trails created using the AWS Management Console are multi-Region. You can
create a single-Region or a multi-Region trail by using the AWS CLI. Creating
a multi-Region trail is recommended because you capture activity in all AWS
Regions in your account. If you create a single-Region trail, you can view
only the events logged in the trail's AWS Region. For more information about
trails, see [Creating a trail for your AWS
account](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/cloudtrail-
create-and-update-a-trail.html) and [Creating a trail for an
organization](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/creating-
trail-organization.html) in the _AWS CloudTrail User Guide_.

You can deliver one copy of your ongoing management events to your Amazon S3
bucket at no charge from CloudTrail by creating a trail, however, there are
Amazon S3 storage charges. For more information about CloudTrail pricing, see
[AWS CloudTrail Pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudtrail/pricing/). For
information about Amazon S3 pricing, see [Amazon S3
Pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/pricing/).

**CloudTrail Lake event data stores**

    

_CloudTrail Lake_ lets you run SQL-based queries on your events. CloudTrail
Lake converts existing events in row-based JSON format to [ Apache
ORC](https://orc.apache.org/) format. ORC is a columnar storage format that is
optimized for fast retrieval of data. Events are aggregated into _event data
stores_ , which are immutable collections of events based on criteria that you
select by applying [advanced event
selectors](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/cloudtrail-
lake-concepts.html#adv-event-selectors). The selectors that you apply to an
event data store control which events persist and are available for you to
query. For more information about CloudTrail Lake, see [Working with AWS
CloudTrail
Lake](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/cloudtrail-
lake.html) in the _AWS CloudTrail User Guide_.

CloudTrail Lake event data stores and queries incur costs. When you create an
event data store, you choose the [pricing
option](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/cloudtrail-
lake-manage-costs.html#cloudtrail-lake-manage-costs-pricing-option) you want
to use for the event data store. The pricing option determines the cost for
ingesting and storing events, and the default and maximum retention period for
the event data store. For more information about CloudTrail pricing, see [AWS
CloudTrail Pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudtrail/pricing/).

## Data events in CloudTrail

[Data
events](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/logging-
data-events-with-cloudtrail.html#logging-data-events) provide information
about the resource operations performed on or in a resource (for example,
reading or writing to an Amazon S3 object). These are also known as data plane
operations. Data events are often high-volume activities. By default,
CloudTrail doesnât log data events. The CloudTrail **Event history** doesn't
record data events.

Additional charges apply for data events. For more information about
CloudTrail pricing, see [AWS CloudTrail
Pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudtrail/pricing/).

You can log data events for the Amazon SWF resource types by using the
CloudTrail console, AWS CLI, or CloudTrail API operations. For more
information about how to log data events, see [Logging data events with the
AWS Management
Console](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/logging-
data-events-with-cloudtrail.html#logging-data-events-console) and [Logging
data events with the AWS Command Line
Interface](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/logging-
data-events-with-cloudtrail.html#creating-data-event-selectors-with-the-AWS-
CLI) in the _AWS CloudTrail User Guide_.

The following table lists the Amazon SWF resource types for which you can log
data events. The **Data event type** column shows the value to choose from the
**Data event type** list on the CloudTrail console. The **resources.type
value** column shows the `resources.type` value, which you would specify when
configuring advanced event selectors using the AWS CLI or CloudTrail APIs. The
**Data APIs logged to CloudTrail** column shows the API calls logged to
CloudTrail for the resource type.

You can configure advanced event selectors to filter on the `eventName`,
`readOnly`, and `resources.ARN` fields to log only those events that are
important to you. For more information about these fields, see
[AdvancedFieldSelector](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/APIReference/API_AdvancedFieldSelector.html)
in the _AWS CloudTrail API Reference_.

Data event type | resources.type value | Data APIs logged to CloudTrail  
---|---|---  
**SWF Domain** |  `AWS::SWF::Domain` |  **Workflow Events**

  * [CountClosedWorkflowExecutions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_CountClosedWorkflowExecutions.html)
  * [CountOpenWorkflowExecutions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_CountOpenWorkflowExecutions.html)
  * [DescribeWorkflowExecution](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_DescribeWorkflowExecution.html)
  * [ListClosedWorkflowExecutions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_ListClosedWorkflowExecutions.html)
  * [ListOpenWorkflowExecutions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_ListOpenWorkflowExecutions.html)
  * [GetWorkflowExecutionHistory](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_GetWorkflowExecutionHistory.html)
  * [RequestCancelWorkflowExecution](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_RequestCancelWorkflowExecution.html)
  * [SignalWorkflowExecution](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_SignalWorkflowExecution.html)
  * [StartWorkflowExecution](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_StartWorkflowExecution.html)
  * [TerminateWorkflowExecution](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_TerminateWorkflowExecution.html)

**Task Events**

  * [CountPendingActivityTasks](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_CountPendingActivityTasks.html)
  * [PollForDecisionTask](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_PollForDecisionTask.html)
  * [PollForActivityTask](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_PollForActivityTask.html)
  * [RecordActivityTaskHeartbeat](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_RecordActivityTaskHeartbeat.html)
  * [RespondActivityTaskCanceled](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_RespondActivityTaskCanceled.html)
  * [RespondActivityTaskCompleted](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_RespondActivityTaskCompleted.html)
  * [RespondActivityTaskFailed](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_RespondActivityTaskFailed.html)
  * [RespondDecisionTaskCompleted](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_RespondDecisionTaskCompleted.html)

**Decision Events**

  * [CancelTimer](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_Decision.html)
  * [CancelWorkflowExecution](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_Decision.html)
  * [CompleteWorkflowExecution](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_Decision.html)
  * [ContinueAsNewWorkflowExecution](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_Decision.html)
  * [FailWorkflowExecution](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_Decision.html)
  * [RecordMarker](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_Decision.html)
  * [RequestCancelActivityTask](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_Decision.html)
  * [RequestCancelExternalWorkflowExecution](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_Decision.html)
  * [ScheduleActivityTask](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_Decision.html)
  * [ScheduleLambdaFunction](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_Decision.html)
  * [SignalExternalWorkflowExecution](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_Decision.html)
  * [StartChildWorkflowExecution](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_Decision.html)
  * [StartTimer](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_Decision.html)

  
  
###### CloudTrail events and RespondDecisionTaskCompleted

The
[RespondDecisionTaskCompleted](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_RespondDecisionTaskCompleted.html)
action takes a list of decisions in the request payload. A completed call will
emit N+1 CloudTrail data events, one for each decision plus one for the API
call itself. The data events and API event will all have the same request id.

## Management events in CloudTrail

[Management
events](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/logging-
management-events-with-cloudtrail.html#logging-management-events) provide
information about management operations that are performed on resources in
your AWS account. These are also known as control plane operations. By
default, CloudTrail logs management events.

Amazon Simple Workflow Service logs the following control plane operations to
CloudTrail as _management events_.

**Domain Events**

  * [RegisterDomain](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_RegisterDomain.html)

  * [DescribeDomain](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_DescribeDomain.html)

  * [ListDomains](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_ListDomains.html)

  * [DeprecateDomain](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_DeprecateDomain.html)

  * [UndeprecateDomain](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_UndeprecateDomain.html)

**Activity Events**

  * [RegisterActivityType](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_RegisterActivityType.html)

  * [DescribeActivityType](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_DescribeActivityType.html)

  * [ListActivityTypes](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_ListActivityTypes.html)

  * [DeprecateActivityType](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_DeprecateActivityType.html)

  * [UndeprecateActivityType](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_UndeprecateActivityType.html)

  * [DeleteActivityType](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_DeleteActivityType.html)

**WorkflowType Events**

  * [RegisterWorkflowType](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_RegisterWorkflowType.html)

  * [DescribeWorkflowType](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_DescribeWorkflowType.html)

  * [ListWorkflowTypes](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_ListWorkflowTypes.html)

  * [DeprecateWorkflowType](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_DeprecateWorkflowType.html)

  * [UndeprecateWorkflowType](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_UndeprecateWorkflowType.html)

  * [DeleteWorkflowType](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_DeleteWorkflowType.html)

**Tag Events**

  * [TagResource](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_TagResource.html)

  * [UntagResource](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_UntagResource.html)

  * [ListTagsforResource](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonswf/latest/apireference/API_ListTagsforResource.html)

## Example event

An event represents a single request from any source and includes information
about the requested API operation, the date and time of the operation, request
parameters, and so on. CloudTrail log files aren't an ordered stack trace of
the public API calls, so events don't appear in any specific order.

The following example shows a CloudTrail event that demonstrates the
`CountClosedWorkflowExecutions` operation.

    
    
    {
        "eventVersion": "1.09",
        "userIdentity": {
          "type": "AssumedRole",
          "principalId": "1234567890abcdef02345:admin",
          "arn": "arn:aws:sts::111122223333:assumed-role/Admin/admin",
          "accountId": "111122223333",
          "accessKeyId": "abcdef01234567890abc",
          "sessionContext": {
            "sessionIssuer": {
              "type": "Role",
              "principalId": "1234567890abcdef02345",
              "arn": "arn:aws:iam::111122223333:role/Admin",
              "accountId": "111122223333",
              "userName": "Admin"
            },
            "attributes": {
              "creationDate": "2023-11-23T16:37:38Z",
              "mfaAuthenticated": "false"
            }
          }
        },
        "eventTime": "2023-11-23T17:52:46Z",
        "eventSource": "swf.amazonaws.com",
        "eventName": "CountClosedWorkflowExecutions",
        "awsRegion": "us-east-1",
        "sourceIPAddress": "198.51.100.42",
        "userAgent": "aws-internal/3 aws-sdk-java/1.11.42",
        "requestParameters": {
          "domain": "nsg-domain",
          "closeTimeFilter": {
            "oldestDate": "Nov 23, 2023 5:52:46 PM",
            "latestDate": "Nov 23, 2023 5:52:46 PM"
          }
        },
        "responseElements": null,
        "requestID": "a1b2c3d4-5678-90ab-cdef-EXAMPLEaaaaa",
        "eventID": "a1b2c3d4-5678-90ab-cdef-EXAMPLEbbbbb",
        "readOnly": true,
        "resources": [
          {
            "accountId": "111122223333",
            "type": "AWS::SWF::Domain",
            "ARN": "arn:aws:swf:us-east-1:111122223333:/domain/nsg-domain"
          }
        ],
        "eventType": "AwsApiCall",
        "managementEvent": false,
        "recipientAccountId": "111122223333",
        "eventCategory": "Data",
        "tlsDetails": {
          "clientProvidedHostHeader": "swf.example.amazondomains.com"
        }
      }
    

For information about CloudTrail record contents, see [CloudTrail record
contents](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/cloudtrail-
event-reference-record-contents.html) in the _AWS CloudTrail User Guide_.

![Warning](https://d1ge0kk1l5kms0.cloudfront.net/images/G/01/webservices/console/warning.png)
**Javascript is disabled or is unavailable in your browser.**

To use the Amazon Web Services Documentation, Javascript must be enabled.
Please refer to your browser's Help pages for instructions.

[Document Conventions](/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

Viewing Amazon SWF Metrics

EventBridge for Amazon SWF

Did this page help you? - Yes

Thanks for letting us know we're doing a good job!

If you've got a moment, please tell us what we did right so we can do more of
it.

Did this page help you? - No

Thanks for letting us know this page needs work. We're sorry we let you down.

If you've got a moment, please tell us how we can make the documentation
better.

