# Processed Content from URL: {'REFERENCE': 'https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/best-practices.html'}

[](/pdfs/IAM/latest/UserGuide/iam-ug.pdf#best-practices "Open PDF")

[Documentation](/index.html)[AWS Identity and Access
Management](/iam/index.html)[User Guide](introduction.html)

Require human users to use federation with an identity provider to access AWS
using temporary credentialsRequire workloads to use temporary credentials with
IAM roles to access AWSRequire multi-factor authentication (MFA)Update access
keys when needed for use cases that require long-term credentialsFollow best
practices to protect your root user credentialsApply least-privilege
permissionsGet started with AWS managed policies and move toward least-
privilege permissionsUse IAM Access Analyzer to generate least-privilege
policies based on access activityRegularly review and remove unused users,
roles, permissions, policies, and credentialsUse conditions in IAM policies to
further restrict accessVerify public and cross-account access to resources
with IAM Access AnalyzerUse IAM Access Analyzer to validate your IAM policies
to ensure secure and functional permissionsEstablish permissions guardrails
across multiple accountsUse permissions boundaries to delegate permissions
management within an account

# Security best practices in IAM

To help secure your AWS resources, follow these best practices for AWS
Identity and Access Management (IAM).

###### Topics

  * Require human users to use federation with an identity provider to access AWS using temporary credentials
  * Require workloads to use temporary credentials with IAM roles to access AWS
  * Require multi-factor authentication (MFA)
  * Update access keys when needed for use cases that require long-term credentials
  * Follow best practices to protect your root user credentials
  * Apply least-privilege permissions
  * Get started with AWS managed policies and move toward least-privilege permissions
  * Use IAM Access Analyzer to generate least-privilege policies based on access activity
  * Regularly review and remove unused users, roles, permissions, policies, and credentials
  * Use conditions in IAM policies to further restrict access
  * Verify public and cross-account access to resources with IAM Access Analyzer
  * Use IAM Access Analyzer to validate your IAM policies to ensure secure and functional permissions
  * Establish permissions guardrails across multiple accounts
  * Use permissions boundaries to delegate permissions management within an account

## Require human users to use federation with an identity provider to access
AWS using temporary credentials

Human users, also known as _human identities,_ are the people, administrators,
developers, operators, and consumers of your applications. They must have an
identity to access your AWS environments and applications. Human users that
are members of your organization are also known as _workforce identities._
Human users can also be external users with whom you collaborate, and who
interact with your AWS resources. They can do this via a web browser, client
application, mobile app, or interactive command-line tools.

Require your human users to use temporary credentials when accessing AWS. You
can use an identity provider for your human users to provide federated access
to AWS accounts by assuming roles, which provide temporary credentials. For
centralized access management, we recommend that you use [AWS IAM Identity
Center (IAM Identity
Center)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/singlesignon/latest/userguide/getting-
started.html) to manage access to your accounts and permissions within those
accounts. You can manage your user identities with IAM Identity Center, or
manage access permissions for user identities in IAM Identity Center from an
external identity provider. For more information, see [What is AWS IAM
Identity
Center](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/singlesignon/latest/userguide/what-
is.html) in the _AWS IAM Identity Center User Guide_.

For more information about roles, see [Roles terms and
concepts](./id_roles.html#id_roles_terms-and-concepts).

## Require workloads to use temporary credentials with IAM roles to access AWS

A _workload_ is a collection of resources and code that delivers business
value, such as an application or backend process. Your workload can have
applications, operational tools, and components that require credentials to
make requests to AWS services, such as requests to read data from Amazon S3.

When you're building on an AWS compute service, such as Amazon EC2 or Lambda,
AWS delivers the temporary credentials of an IAM role to that compute
resource. Applications written using an AWS SDK will discover and use these
temporary credentials to access AWS resources, and there is no need to
distribute long lived credentials for an IAM user to your workloads running on
AWS.

Workloads that run on outside of AWS, such as your on-premises servers,
servers from other cloud providers, or managed continuous integration and
continuous delivery (CI/CD) platforms, can still use temporary credentials.
However, you'll need to deliver these temporary credentials to your workload.
The following are ways you can deliver temporary credentials to your
workloads:

  * You can use IAM Roles Anywhere to request temporary AWS credentials for your workload using an X.509 Certificate from your public key infrastructure (PKI).

  * You can call the AWS AWS STS`AssumeRoleWithSAML` API to request temporary AWS credentials for your workload using a SAML assertion from an external identity provider (IdP) that is configured within your AWS account.

  * You can call the AWS AWS STS `AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity` API to request temporary AWS credentials for your workload using a JSON web token (JWT) from an IdP that is configured within your AWS account.

  * You can requests temporary AWS credentials from your IoT device using Mutual Transport Layer Security (MTLS) authentication using AWS IoT Core.

Some AWS services also support integrations to deliver temporary credentials
to your workloads running outside of AWS:

  * [Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) Anywhere](https://aws.amazon.com/ecs/anywhere/) lets you run Amazon ECS tasks on your own compute resources, and delivers temporary AWS credentials to your Amazon ECS tasks running on those compute resources.

  * [Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service Hybrid Nodes](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/hybrid-nodes-overview.html) lets you join your compute resources running outside of AWS as nodes to an Amazon EKS cluster. Amazon EKS can deliver temporary credentials to the Amazon EKS pods running on your compute resources.

  * [AWS Systems ManagerHybrid Activations](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/activations.html) lets you manage your compute resources running outside of AWS using SSM, and delivers temporary AWS credentials to the SSM agent running on your compute resources.

## Require multi-factor authentication (MFA)

We recommend using IAM roles for human users and workloads that access your
AWS resources so that they use temporary credentials. However, for scenarios
in which you need an IAM user or root user in your account, require MFA for
additional security. With MFA, users have a device that generates a response
to an authentication challenge. Each user's credentials and device-generated
response are required to complete the sign-in process. For more information,
see [AWS Multi-factor authentication in IAM](./id_credentials_mfa.html).

If you use IAM Identity Center for centralized access management for human
users, you can use the IAM Identity Center MFA capabilities when your identity
source is configured with the IAM Identity Center identity store, AWS Managed
Microsoft AD, or AD Connector. For more information about MFA in IAM Identity
Center see [Multi-factor
authentication](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/singlesignon/latest/userguide/enable-
mfa.html) in the _AWS IAM Identity Center User Guide_.

## Update access keys when needed for use cases that require long-term
credentials

Where possible, we recommend relying on temporary credentials instead of
creating long-term credentials such as access keys. However, for scenarios in
which you need IAM users with programmatic access and long-term credentials,
we recommend that you update the access keys when needed, such as when an
employee leaves your company. We recommend that you use _IAM access last used
information_ to update and remove access keys safely. For more information,
see [Update access keys](./id-credentials-access-keys-update.html).

There are specific use cases that require long-term credentials with IAM users
in AWS. Some of the use cases include the following:

  * Workloads that cannot use IAM roles â You might run a workload from a location that needs to access AWS. In some situations, you can't use IAM roles to provide temporary credentials, such as for WordPress plugins. In these situations, use IAM user long-term access keys for that workload to authenticate to AWS.

  * Third-party AWS clients â If you are using tools that donât support access with IAM Identity Center, such as third-party AWS clients or vendors that are not hosted on AWS, use IAM user long-term access keys.

  * AWS CodeCommit access â If you are using CodeCommit to store your code, you can use an IAM user with either SSH keys or service-specific credentials for CodeCommit to authenticate to your repositories. We recommend that you do this in addition to using a user in IAM Identity Center for normal authentication. Users in IAM Identity Center are the people in your workforce who need access to your AWS accounts or to your cloud applications. To give users access to your CodeCommit repositories without configuring IAM users, you can configure the **git-remote-codecommit** utility. For more information about IAM and CodeCommit, see [IAM credentials for CodeCommit: Git credentials, SSH keys, and AWS access keys](./id_credentials_ssh-keys.html). For more information about configuring the **git-remote-codecommit** utility, see [Connecting to AWS CodeCommit repositories with rotating credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codecommit/latest/userguide/temporary-access.html#temporary-access-configure-credentials) in the _AWS CodeCommit User Guide_.

  * Amazon Keyspaces (for Apache Cassandra) access â In a situation where you are unable to use users in IAM Identity Center, such as for testing purposes for Cassandra compatibility, you can use an IAM user with service-specific credentials to authenticate with Amazon Keyspaces. Users in IAM Identity Center are the people in your workforce who need access to your AWS accounts or to your cloud applications. You can also connect to Amazon Keyspaces using temporary credentials. For more information, see [Using temporary credentials to connect to Amazon Keyspaces using an IAM role and the SigV4 plugin](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/keyspaces/latest/devguide/access.credentials.html#temporary.credentials.IAM) in the _Amazon Keyspaces (for Apache Cassandra) Developer Guide_.

## Follow best practices to protect your root user credentials

When you create an AWS account, you establish root user credentials to sign in
to the AWS Management Console. Safeguard your root user credentials the same
way you would protect other sensitive personal information. To better
understand how to secure and scale your root user processes, see [Root user
best practices for your AWS account](./root-user-best-practices.html).

## Apply least-privilege permissions

When you set permissions with IAM policies, grant only the permissions
required to perform a task. You do this by defining the actions that can be
taken on specific resources under specific conditions, also known as _least-
privilege permissions_. You might start with broad permissions while you
explore the permissions that are required for your workload or use case. As
your use case matures, you can work to reduce the permissions that you grant
to work toward least privilege. For more information about using IAM to apply
permissions, see [Policies and permissions in AWS Identity and Access
Management](./access_policies.html).

## Get started with AWS managed policies and move toward least-privilege
permissions

To get started granting permissions to your users and workloads, use the _AWS
managed policies_ that grant permissions for many common use cases. They are
available in your AWS account. Keep in mind that AWS managed policies might
not grant least-privilege permissions for your specific use cases because they
are available for use by all AWS customers. As a result, we recommend that you
reduce permissions further by defining [customer managed
policies](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies_managed-
vs-inline.html#customer-managed-policies) that are specific to your use cases.
For more information, see [AWS managed policies](./access_policies_managed-vs-
inline.html#aws-managed-policies). For more information about AWS managed
policies that are designed for specific job functions, see [AWS managed
policies for job functions](./access_policies_job-functions.html).

## Use IAM Access Analyzer to generate least-privilege policies based on
access activity

To grant only the permissions required to perform a task, you can generate
policies based on your access activity that is logged in AWS CloudTrail. [IAM
Access Analyzer](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/what-is-
access-analyzer.html) analyzes the services and actions that your IAM roles
use, and then generates a fine-grained policy that you can use. After you test
each generated policy, you can deploy the policy to your production
environment. This ensures that you grant only the required permissions to your
workloads. For more information about policy generation, see [IAM Access
Analyzer policy
generation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access-analyzer-
policy-generation.html).

## Regularly review and remove unused users, roles, permissions, policies, and
credentials

You might have IAM users, roles, permissions, policies, or credentials that
you no longer need in your AWS account. IAM provides _last accessed
information_ to help you identify the users, roles, permissions, policies, and
credentials that you no longer need so that you can remove them. This helps
you reduce the number of users, roles, permissions, policies, and credentials
that you have to monitor. You can also use this information to refine your IAM
policies to better adhere to least-privilege permissions. For more
information, see [Refine permissions in AWS using last accessed
information](./access_policies_last-accessed.html).

## Use conditions in IAM policies to further restrict access

You can specify conditions under which a policy statement is in effect. That
way, you can grant access to actions and resources, but only if the access
request meets specific conditions. For example, you can write a policy
condition to specify that all requests must be sent using TLS. You can also
use conditions to grant access to service actions, but only if they are used
through a specific AWS service, such as AWS CloudFormation. For more
information, see [IAM JSON policy elements:
Condition](./reference_policies_elements_condition.html).

## Verify public and cross-account access to resources with IAM Access
Analyzer

Before you grant permissions for public or cross-account access in AWS, we
recommend that you verify if such access is required. You can use IAM Access
Analyzer to help you preview and analyze public and cross-account access for
supported resource types. You do this by reviewing the
[findings](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access-analyzer-
findings.html) that IAM Access Analyzer generates. These findings help you
verify that your resource access controls grant the access that you expect.
Additionally, as you update public and cross-account permissions, you can
verify the effect of your changes before deploying new access controls to your
resources. IAM Access Analyzer also monitors supported resource types
continuously and generates a finding for resources that allow public or cross-
account access. For more information, see [Previewing access with IAM Access
Analyzer APIs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access-
analyzer-preview-access-apis.html).

## Use IAM Access Analyzer to validate your IAM policies to ensure secure and
functional permissions

Validate the policies you create to ensure that they adhere to the [IAM policy
language](./access_policies.html#access_policies-json) (JSON) and IAM best
practices. You can validate your policies by using IAM Access Analyzer policy
validation. IAM Access Analyzer provides more than 100 policy checks and
actionable recommendations to help you author secure and functional policies.
As you author new policies or edit existing policies in the console, IAM
Access Analyzer provides recommendations to help you refine and validate your
policies before you save them. Additionally, we recommend that you review and
validate all of your existing policies. For more information, see [IAM Access
Analyzer policy
validation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access-analyzer-
policy-validation.html). For more information about policy checks provided by
IAM Access Analyzer, see [IAM Access Analyzer policy check
reference](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access-analyzer-
reference-policy-checks.html).

## Establish permissions guardrails across multiple accounts

As you scale your workloads, separate them by using multiple accounts that are
managed with AWS Organizations. We recommend that you use Organizations
[service control
policies](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/organizations/latest/userguide/orgs_manage_policies_scps.html)
(SCPs) to establish permissions guardrails to control access for all
prinicpals (IAM roles and users) across your accounts. We recommend that you
use Organizations [resource control
policies](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/organizations/latest/userguide/orgs_manage_policies_rcps.html)
(RCPs) to establish permissions guardrails to control access for AWS resources
across your organization. SCPs and RCPs are types of organization policies
that you can use to manage permissions in your organization at the AWS
organization, organizational unit (OU), or account level.

However, SCPs and RCPs alone are insufficient to grant permissions to
principals and resources in your organization. No permissions are granted by
SCPs and RCPs. To grant permissions, you must attach [identity-based or
resource-based policies](./access_policies_identity-vs-resource.html) to IAM
users, IAM roles, or the resources in your accounts. For more information, see
[SRA building blocks â AWS Organizations, accounts, and
guardrails](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prescriptive-guidance/latest/security-
reference-architecture/organizations.html).

## Use permissions boundaries to delegate permissions management within an
account

In some scenarios, you might want to delegate permissions management within an
account to others. For example, you could allow developers to create and
manage roles for their workloads. When you delegate permissions to others, use
_permissions boundaries_ to set the maximum permissions that you delegate. A
permissions boundary is an advanced feature for using a managed policy to set
the maximum permissions that an identity-based policy can grant to an IAM
role. A permissions boundary does not grant permissions on its own. For more
information, see [Permissions boundaries for IAM
entities](./access_policies_boundaries.html).

![Warning](https://d1ge0kk1l5kms0.cloudfront.net/images/G/01/webservices/console/warning.png)
**Javascript is disabled or is unavailable in your browser.**

To use the Amazon Web Services Documentation, Javascript must be enabled.
Please refer to your browser's Help pages for instructions.

[Document Conventions](/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

Security best practices and use cases

Root user best practices

Did this page help you? - Yes

Thanks for letting us know we're doing a good job!

If you've got a moment, please tell us what we did right so we can do more of
it.

Did this page help you? - No

Thanks for letting us know this page needs work. We're sorry we let you down.

If you've got a moment, please tell us how we can make the documentation
better.

