# Processed Content from URL: {'REFERENCE': 'https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/'}

  * [ Sign In ](https://www.cloudconformity.com/identity/sign-in.html)
  * [ Buy ](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-g232pyu6l55l4?applicationId=AWSMPContessa)
  * [ Free Trial  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/SignUp.screen?)

* * *

[ ![Logo of Trend
Micro](/cloudoneconformity/assets/v2/images/common/logo.svg?1740361707617976185)
](https://trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/)

  * Knowledge Base 

    * [ AWS ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/)
    * [ Azure ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/azure/)
    * [ GCP ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/gcp/)
    * [ Conformity ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/cloudconformity/)
    * [ Alibaba Cloud ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/alibaba-cloud/)

  * Products 

    * [ Cloud Oneâ¢ - Conformity ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-conformity)
    * [ All Cloud Oneâ¢ Services ](https://www.trendmicro.com/hybridcloud)

  * [ Help  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/docs/conformity/)
  * 

  * Knowledge Base 

    * [ AWS  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/)
    * [ Azure  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/azure/)
    * [ GCP  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/gcp/)
    * [ Conformity  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/cloudconformity/)
    * [ Alibaba Cloud  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/alibaba-cloud/)

  * Products 

    * [ Cloud Oneâ¢ - Conformity  ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-conformity)
    * [ All Cloud Oneâ¢ Services  ](https://www.trendmicro.com/hybridcloud)

  * [ Help  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/docs/conformity/)

  * [ Sign In  ](https://www.cloudconformity.com/identity/sign-in.html)
  * [ Buy  ](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-g232pyu6l55l4?applicationId=AWSMPContessa)
  * [ Free Trial  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/SignUp.screen?)

Use the Conformity Knowledge Base AI to help improve your Cloud Posture [ ð¬
Conformity Knowledge Base AI >
](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/ai-assistant-kb.html)

  * [Knowledge Base](/knowledge-base/ "Best practice knowledge base homepage")
  * [Amazon Web Services](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ "Best practice knowledge base for Amazon Web Services")
  * AWS Auto Scaling

# AWS AutoScaling Best Practices

AWS

##  Best practice rules for AWS Auto Scaling

  * [App-Tier Auto Scaling Group associated ELB](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/app-tier-autoscaling-group-associated-load-balancer.html)

Ensure that each app-tier Auto Scaling Group (ASG) has an associated Elastic
Load Balancer (ELB) in order to maintain the availability of the EC2 compute
resources in the event of a failure and provide an evenly distributed
application load.

  * [Auto Scaling Group Cooldown Period](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/cooldown-period.html)

Ensure Amazon Auto Scaling Groups are utilizing cooldown periods.

  * [Auto Scaling Group Health Check](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/auto-scaling-group-health-check.html)

Ensure ELB health check is enabled if Elastic Load Balancing is being used for
an Auto Scaling group. Ensure EC2 health check is enabled if Elastic Load
Balancing isn't being used for an Auto Scaling group

  * [Auto Scaling Group Notifications](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/auto-scaling-group-notifications.html)

Ensure notifications are enabled for ASGs to receive additional information
about scaling operations.

  * [Auto Scaling Group Referencing Missing ELB](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/auto-scaling-group-referencing-missing-elb.html)

Ensure Amazon Auto Scaling Groups are utilizing active Elastic Load Balancers.

  * [Auto Scaling Group associated ELB](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/autoscaling-group-associated-load-balancer.html)

Ensure that each Auto Scaling Group (ASG) has an associated Elastic Load
Balancer (ELB) in order to maintain the availability of the EC2 compute
resources in the event of a failure and provide an evenly distributed
application load.

  * [CloudWatch Logs Agent for App-Tier Auto Scaling Group In Use](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/app-tier-autoscaling-group-cloudwatch-logs-agent.html)

Ensure an agent for AWS CloudWatch Logs is installed within Auto Scaling Group
for app tier.

  * [CloudWatch Logs Agent for Web-Tier Auto Scaling Group In Use](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/web-tier-autoscaling-group-cloudwatch-logs-agent.html)

Ensure an agent for AWS CloudWatch Logs is installed within Auto Scaling Group
for web tier.

  * [Configure Metadata Response Hop Limit](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/auto-scaling-group-imds-ttl.html)

Configure the metadata response hop limit for EC2 instances running within the
Auto Scaling Group.

  * [Configure Multiple Instance Types Across Multiple AZs](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/asg-multiple-instance-type-az.html)

Ensure that your Auto Scaling Groups are using multiple instance types across
multiple Availability Zones.

  * [Disable Public IP Association in ASG Launch Templates](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/disable-associate-public-ip-address.html)

Ensure that your Auto Scaling Group (ASG) instances are not using public IP
addresses.

  * [Empty Auto Scaling Group](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/empty-auto-scaling-group.html)

Identify and remove empty AWS Auto Scaling Groups (ASGs).

  * [IAM Roles for App-Tier ASG Launch Configurations](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/app-tier-autoscaling-group-launch-configuration-iam-role.html)

Ensure Auto Scaling Group launch configuration for app tier is configured to
use a customer created app-tier IAM role.

  * [IAM Roles for Web-Tier ASG Launch Configurations](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/web-tier-autoscaling-group-launch-configuration-iam-role.html)

Ensure Auto Scaling Group launch configuration for web tier is configured to
use a customer created web-tier IAM role.

  * [Launch Configuration Referencing Missing AMI](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/launch-configuration-referencing-missing-ami.html)

Ensure AWS Launch Configurations are utilizing active Amazon Machine Images.

  * [Launch Configuration Referencing Missing Security Groups](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/launch-configuration-referencing-missing-security-group.html)

Ensure AWS Launch Configurations are utilizing active Security Groups.

  * [Multi-AZ Auto Scaling Groups](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/multiple-availability-zones.html)

Ensure AWS Auto Scaling Groups utilize multiple Availability Zones to improve
environment reliability.

  * [Same Availability Zones In ASG And ELB](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/same-availability-zones-in-asg-and-elb.html)

Ensure AWS Availability Zones used for Auto Scaling Groups and for their
Elastic Load Balancers are the same.

  * [Suspended Auto Scaling Groups](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/suspended-auto-scaling-groups.html)

Ensure there are no Amazon Auto Scaling Groups with suspended processes.

  * [Unused Launch Configuration](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/unused-launch-configuration.html)

Identify and remove unused AWS Auto Scaling Launch Configuration templates.

  * [Use Approved AMIs for App-Tier ASG Launch Configurations](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/app-tier-autoscaling-launch-configuration-approved-amazon-machine-image.html)

Ensure Auto Scaling Group launch configuration for app tier is configured to
use an approved Amazon Machine Image.

  * [Use Approved AMIs for Web-Tier ASG Launch Configurations](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/web-tier-autoscaling-launch-configuration-approved-amazon-machine-image.html)

Ensure Auto Scaling Group launch configuration for web tier is configured to
use an approved Amazon Machine Image.

  * [Use Launch Templates for Auto Scaling Groups](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/asg-launch-template.html)

Ensure that your Auto Scaling Groups (ASGs) are utilizing launch templates.

  * [Web-Tier Auto Scaling Group associated ELB](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/AutoScaling/web-tier-autoscaling-group-associated-load-balancer.html)

Ensure that each web-tier Auto Scaling Group (ASG) has an associated Elastic
Load Balancer (ELB) in order to maintain the availability of the EC2 compute
resources in the event of a failure and provide an evenly distributed
application load.

* * *

Whether your cloud exploration is just starting to take shape, youâre mid-
way through a migration or youâre already running complex workloads in the
cloud, Conformity offers full visibility into your overall security and
governance posture across various standards and frameworks.

##  Continuous security & compliance for cloud environments. Grow and scale
your business with confidence

[ Try it for free  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/SignUp.screen?) [ Get
pricing  ](https://resources.trendmicro.com/cloud-one-conformity-pricing.html)

Products

  * [ Conformity ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-conformity)
  * [ Workload Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-workload)
  * [ Container Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-image)
  * [ File Storage Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-file)
  * [ Application Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-app)
  * [ Network Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-net)

Solutions For

  * [ Cloud Migration ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloud-migration-security)
  * [ Cloud Operational Excellence ](https://www.trendmicro.com/opexcellence)
  * [ Cloud Native App Development ](https://www.trendmicro.com/nativeappdev)
  * [ Data Center Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/security-data-center-virtualization)

Help

  * [ Help by Topic ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/docs/conformity/)
  * [ Help AI Assistant ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/ai-assistant-help.html)
  * [ API Documentation ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/docs/conformity/api-reference/)
  * [ Contact Us ](https://resources.trendmicro.com/Hybrid-Cloud-Security-Contact-Us.html)
  * [ Knowledge Base AI Assistant ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/ai-assistant-kb.html)

Company

  * [ About Us ](https://www.trendmicro.com/about)
  * [ Careers ](https://www.trendmicro.com/careers)
  * [ Newsroom ](https://www.trendmicro.com/newsroom)

Privacy and Protection

  * [ Terms and Conditions ](https://www.cloudconformity.com/terms-and-conditions.html)
  * [ Privacy Policy ](https://www.trendmicro.com/privacy)
  * [ Report a Security Vulnerability ](https://www.cloudconformity.com/responsible-disclosure.html)

[ ](https://www.facebook.com/TrendMicro/) [ ](https://twitter.com/trendmicro)
[ ](https://www.linkedin.com/company/trend-micro) [
](http://feeds.trendmicro.com/TrendMicroSimplySecurity) [
](https://www.youtube.com/user/TrendMicroInc)

Copyright Â© 2025 Trend Micro Incorporated. All rights reserved. Version
v1.188.9-383-geea80320

