# Processed Content from URL: {'REFERENCE': 'https://sysdig.com/blog/secure-and-monitor-aws-outposts-hybrid-clouds/'}

[ Customers rate Sysdig top CNAPP in Customers' Choice category within
Gartner® VOC report  LEARN MORE ](https://sysdig.com/blog/sysdig-recognized-
as-customers-choice-in-gartner-voice-of-the-customer-for-cnapp/) [ BIG NEWS:
Sysdig unveils Stratoshark, the "Wireshark for the Cloud"  LEARN MORE
](https://sysdig.com/press-releases/sysdig-unveils-stratoshark-extending-
wireshark-to-cloud/) [ EMERALDWHALE: 15,000 creds stolen in operation
targeting Git config files  LEARN MORE
](https://sysdig.com/blog/emeraldwhale/) [ Hot off the press: The 2024 Sysdig
Global Threat Report is available now!   GET THE REPORT
](https://sysdig.com/content/c/pf-2024-global-threat-report?x=u_WFRi&lb-
mode=overlay) [ Sysdig is a Representative Vendor in the 2024 Gartner® Market
Guide for CNAPP  GET THE GUIDE ](https://go.sysdig.com/2024-gartner-market-
guide)

[ ![Sysdig logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sysdig-logo-new-
white.svg) Sysdig Home ](https://sysdig.com/)

[![Sysdig logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sysdig-logo-new-
white.svg)](https://sysdig.com/) ×

  * Platform
    * Back
    * Platform
    * Platform

      * [Sysdig SecureCNAPP powered by runtime insights](/products/platform/)
      * [Environments](/ecosystem/)
      * [Integrations](/integrations/)
    * Powered By

      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-falco.svg)FalcoThe core engine providing runtime insights to the Sysdig platform](/opensource/falco/)
    * hidden header

      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-sage.svg)Sysdig Sage™ GenAIAI cloud security analyst with multi-step reasoning](/generative-ai/)
    * [![SysDig 555 logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-feature-555-1-350x197.png)555 BenchmarkDetect and respond to cloud attacks faster than attackers can complete them](/555-benchmark/)
  * Solutions
    * Back
    * Solutions
    * Real-time Cloud Security

      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-cloud-native.svg)Cloud-Native Application Protection PlatformUnified cloud security to protect your cloud, containers, and workloads](/solutions/cloud-native-application-protection-platform/)
      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-ai-workload.svg)AI Workload SecurityDetect, prioritize, and remediate active AI risk](/ai-security-workflow/)
      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-cloud-detection.svg)Cloud Detection & ResponseDetect, investigate, and respond to threats at cloud speed](/solutions/cloud-threat-detection-and-response/)
    * From Prevention to Detection & Response

      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-cwpp.svg)Cloud Workload Protection](/solutions/cwpp/)
      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-vulnerability-management.svg)Vulnerability Management](/solutions/vulnerability-management/)
      * [![checklist icon](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-cloud-security-posture-management.svg)Cloud Security Posture Management](/solutions/cspm/)
      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-cloud-identity.svg)Cloud Identity & Entitlement Management](/solutions/permissions-entitlement-management/)
    * hidden

      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-container-security.svg)Container & Kubernetes Security](/solutions/container-and-kubernetes-security/)
      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-server-threat-detection.svg)Server Threat Detection & Response](/solutions/server-threat-detection/)
      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-infrastructure-as-code-security.svg)Infrastructure as Code Security](/solutions/infrastructure-as-code-security/)
    * [![Falco logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-feature-runtime-350x197.png)Cloud Security Requires Runtime InsightsReal-time visibility for detection and response and rich context to prioritize what matters most](/why-runtime-insights/)
  * Company
    * Back
    * Company
    * Why Sysdig

      * [Our CustomersHear how our customers secure and accelerate innovation in the cloud](/customers/)
      * [Runtime InsightsLearn how runtime insights powers real-time cloud security](/why-runtime-insights/)
      * [Threat Research TeamGet the latest threat research and security findings](/threat-research/)
    * About Sysdig

      * [Who We Are](/about/)
      * [Leadership Team](/company/leadership/)
      * [Newsroom](/newsroom/)
    * Compare Sysdig

      * [Aqua](/vs/aqua/)
      * [Crowdstrike](/vs/crowdstrike/)
      * [Lacework](/vs/lacework/)
      * [Orca](/vs/orca/)
      * [Prisma Cloud](/vs/prismacloud/)
      * [SentinelOne](/vs/sentinelone/)
      * [Wiz](/vs/wiz/)
    * [![Headshot of Dan Holden, VP of Cybersecurity at BigCommerce](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-feature-customer-350x197.jpg)Customer SpotlightBigCommerce achieves real-time cloud security](/customers/bigcommerce/)
  * Open Source
    * Back
    * Open Source
    * OSS

      * [Sysdig & OSSThe future of security is open](/opensource/)
    * Projects

      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-falco-1.svg)FalcoDetect threats in real time](/opensource/falco/)
      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-falco.svg)Falco Feeds by SysdigEnterprise detection rules for Falco users](/opensource/falco-feeds/)
      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/stratoshark_icon.svg)StratosharkAnalyze, troubleshoot, and secure cloud environments](https://sysdig.com/opensource/stratoshark/)
    * hidden

      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-open-policy-agent.svg)Open Policy AgentUnify policy enforcement for cloud-native environments](/opensource/open-policy-agent/)
      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-prometheus.svg)PrometheusMonitor cloud-native applications and Kubernetes](/opensource/prometheus/)
    * [![Headshot of Loris Degioanni - CTO and founder of Sysdig](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-feature-falco-350x197.jpg)Why Open Source MattersFalco’s journey to CNCF graduation](/blog/falco-cncf-graduation/)
  * Resources
    * Back
    * Resources
    * Learn

      * [BlogGet the latest news and insights from cloud security experts](/blog/)
      * [Learn Cloud NativeLearn cloud and container security fundamentals](/learn-cloud-native/)
      * [Content LibraryExplore cloud and container security content](/content-library/)
    * Engage

      * [Webinars & Workshops](/content-library/webinars/)
      * [Events](/content-library/events/)
      * [Contact Us](/contact-us/)
    * Get Support

      * [Contact Support](/support/)
      * [Sysdig Status](/company/sysdig-status/)
      * [Docs](https://docs.sysdig.com/)
    * [![Sysdig Threat Research thumbnail](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-feature-trt-350x197.png)Sysdig Threat ResearchSecurity research focused on the latest cloud-native security threats, vulnerabilities, and attack patterns](/threat-research/)

  * ![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/themes/sysdig/assets/images/search-white.svg) Search
    * Back
    * Search for: Search
    * Best Match

View all search results

  * ![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/themes/sysdig/assets/images/globe-white.svg) Languages
    * Back
    * Language
    * Language Header - Hidden

      * [Deutsch](https://de.sysdig.com/)
      * [English](https://sysdig.com/)
      * [Español](https://sysdig.es/)
      * [Français](https://fr.sysdig.com/)
      * [Italiano](https://it.sysdig.com/)
      * [日本](https://sysdig.jp/)
  * Log In
    * Back
    * Log In
    * Monitor

      * [US-East](https://app.sysdigcloud.com/#/login)
      * [US-West](https://us2.app.sysdig.com/#/login)
      * [EU-Central](https://eu1.app.sysdig.com/#/login)
      * [AWS-AP-Sydney](https://app.au1.sysdig.com/#/login)
      * [AWS-AP-South](https://app.in1.sysdig.com)
      * [GCP-US-West](https://app.us4.sysdig.com/#/login)
    * Secure

      * [US-East](https://secure.sysdig.com/#/login)
      * [US-West](https://us2.app.sysdig.com/secure/#/login)
      * [EU-Central](https://eu1.app.sysdig.com/secure/#/login)
      * [AWS-AP-Sydney](https://app.au1.sysdig.com/secure/#/login)
      * [AWS-AP-South](https://app.in1.sysdig.com/secure)
      * [GCP-US-West](https://app.us4.sysdig.com/secure/#/login)
    * Log In - 3rd Column Header - HIdden

      * [Support](https://cx.sysdig.com/)
  * [Get Demo](/request-a-demo/)
  * [![SysDig 555 logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-feature-555-1-350x197.png)555 BenchmarkDetect and respond to cloud attacks faster than attackers can complete them](/555-benchmark/)

  1. [Back to Blog](https://sysdig.com/blog/)

# Secure and monitor AWS Outposts and hybrid clouds

By [Eric Carter](https://sysdig.com/blog/author/eric/) \- SEPTEMBER 15, 2020

SHARE:

[ ![Facebook logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-
content/uploads/facebook-3-logo-1-1.png)
](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https://sysdig.com/blog/secure-
and-monitor-aws-outposts-hybrid-clouds/) [ ![LinkedIn
logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/Vector-1-2.png)
](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://sysdig.com/blog/secure-
and-monitor-aws-outposts-hybrid-clouds/) [ ![X \(formerly Twitter\)
logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/twitter-x-logo-black-
round-20851.svg)
](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https://sysdig.com/blog/secure-and-
monitor-aws-outposts-hybrid-clouds/&text=)

![Secure and Monitor AWS Outposts](https://sysdig.com/wp-
content/uploads/secure-monitor-aws-outposts-feature.png)

Today [we announced](https://sysdig.com/press-releases/sysdig-achieves-aws-
outposts-ready-designation/) that Sysdig has demonstrated successful
integration of our monitoring and security software with AWS Outposts, and
achieved the AWS Outposts Ready designation. AWS Outposts provides a fully
managed service that extends AWS infrastructure, services, APIs, and tools to
your datacenter, co-location space, or "edge" location to support on-prem and
hybrid cloud use cases. AWS Outposts provides a hardware and software stack
built on Amazon's EC2 public cloud expertise. With [AWS
Outposts](https://aws.amazon.com/outposts/), you can run container-based
services such as Amazon EKS and Amazon ECS without needing to install and
operate your own container orchestration software.

![AWS Outposts infrastructure](https://sysdig.com/wp-
content/uploads/outpost_rack.png)AWS Outposts on-prem infrastructureIn
particular, you may choose AWS Outposts to run containerized applications that
require low latency, local data processing, and local storage requirements. In
addition, you can create a single deployment pipeline that targets your AWS
Outposts and your cloud-based environments, and create hybrid architectures
that span both. Dynamic, container-based environments can be challenging to
monitor and secure. Operating containers and Kubernetes on AWS Outposts is no
exception. You'll need to carefully consider how you will enable security and
visibility in your existing workflows to ensure these key functions don't slow
you down. Many organizations invest significant resources and time to address
visibility and security - and this is where Sysdig can help so you can _focus
more on developing great software and less on operations._ Our goal at Sysdig
is to make it easier for you to enable and automate visibility and security,
regardless of where you run your cloud-native workloads. We've taken a SaaS-
first approach and provided simplified onboarding to help you get you started
on the most critical security, compliance, and monitoring functions in just a
few minutes.

## Testing AWS Outposts with Sysdig monitoring and security

As we set out to test the Sysdig platform with AWS Outposts, our key premise in building our test plan was - if it works in AWS, it should work on AWS Outposts. After all, this is the promise of the AWS solution, right? The good news is that, indeed, we found that our best practices for installation, as well as the secure DevOps capabilities of Sysdig Monitor and Sysdig Secure, function, with solutions like EC2, EKS, and ECS on AWS Outposts just as they do on AWS Cloud. Here's a quick overview of what we tested:  **✅** | Installing the Sysdig agent on EC2, EKS, and ECS using established workflows  
---|---  
**✅** | Collecting metadata for hosts, containers, and Kubernetes  
**✅** | Collecting metrics and telemetry for infrastructure and apps  
**✅** | Viewing performance, state, and health using dashboards  
**✅** | Detecting security events at container runtime  
**✅** | Collecting Kubernetes Audit Log events from EKS  
**✅** | Automating security response - e.g., kill violating containers  
**✅** | Auditing activity - correlating container and Kubernetes activity  
**✅** | CIS benchmarking for compliance - Docker-bench and Kube-bench  
**✅** | Executing system call captures for troubleshooting & forensics  
In each of these test cases, what we're able to do in the AWS Cloud, we're
also able to do with AWS Outposts. This means you're able to do things like
see inside containers to alert on anomalous behavior and application health
issues, and resolve issues quickly by analyzing granular data from nearly any
perspective. What's more, Sysdig is able to provide centralized visibility and
security for your AWS Outposts and AWS public cloud deployments, all from the
same consolidated, SaaS-based solution. ([Read more about Sysdig SaaS
advantages](https://dig.sysdig.com/c/pf-saas-guide-pdf?x=u_WFRi)). We strongly
believe that a unified solution for visibility and security will help you
reduce complexity and get results faster. ![image alt
text](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/hybrid-cloud-visibility-aws-
outposts.png)**Hybrid Cloud Cluster Overview Dashboard in Sysdig Monitor**
After successful completion of testing with AWS Outposts, we incorporated the
solution into [Sysdig documentation](https://docs.sysdig.com/). Also, to give
you a one-stop-shop, we built [a page on
GitHub](https://sysdiglabs.github.io/aws-outpost/) with consolidated details
to help you get started.  Unify monitoring and security for containers, Amazon
EKS, and Amazon ECS on AWS Outposts with Sysdig __Click to tweet

## **Working with AWS Outposts users**

We look forward to working with AWS users as they adopt AWS Outposts as a part
of their cloud infrastructure. If you are using the solution, we'd be happy to
give you access to a [free trial](https://sysdig.com/company/free-trial/) and
have you run the Sysdig solution through the paces for your environment.
Please [contact us](https://sysdig.com/contact-us/) and we can help you get
started. If AWS Outposts is new to you and you'd like to learn more, check out
the [AWS Outposts page](https://aws.amazon.com/outposts/) for details, an
instructional video, and customer testimonials.

## **Secure DevOps for AWS Outposts**

As you move from initial sandbox to production application deployments of
containers using AWS Outposts and hybrid AWS deployments, you'll face new
operational challenges. Sysdig can help you stay on top of security,
compliance, availability, and performance so you can ship cloud applications
faster. [Check out our guide to monitoring and securing cloud applications on
AWS.](https://dig.sysdig.com/c/pf-aws-container-security-monitoring-
guide?x=u_WFRi) In it, you'll learn what both AWS and Sysdig have to offer to
help you embed security, compliance, and monitoring into your DevOps workflow.

Subscribe and get the latest updates

Thank You For Signing Up!

This form failed to load.

An ad blocking extension or strict tracking protection is preventing this form
from loading. Please temporarily disable ad blocking or whitelist this site,
use less restrictive tracking protection, or enable JavaScript to load this
form. If you are unable to complete this form, please email us at [[email
protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#483b29242d3b083b313b2c212f662b2725)
and a sales rep will contact you.

  * Products
    * [Sysdig Secure](/products/platform/)
    * [Sysdig Monitor](/products/monitor/)
  * Partners
    * [Sysdig Partners](/partners/)
    * [Deal Registration](https://sysdig.com/deal-registration/)
    * [Partner Signup](https://sysdig.com/partnerships-contact/)
    * [Partner Locator](https://sysdig.com/partner-locator/)
    * [Integrations](https://sysdig.com/integrations/)
    * [Partner Portal](https://partnercentral.sysdig.com/)
  * Company
    * [About Us](/about/)
    * [Leadership](/company/leadership/)
    * [Careers](/careers/)
    * [Newsroom](/newsroom/)
    * [Contact Us](/contact-us/)
    * [Legal](/legal/)
    * [Sitemap](/sitemap/)
  * Support
    * [Support](/support/)
    * [Sysdig Status](/company/sysdig-status/)
    * [Documentation](https://docs.sysdig.com/)
    * [Customer Success](/support/customer-success/)
  * Social
    * [![X \(Formerly Twitter\) logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/twitter.svg)Twitter](https://twitter.com/sysdig)
    * [![Github logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/github.svg)Github](https://github.com/draios)
    * [![Slack logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/slack.svg)Slack](https://slack.sysdig.com/)
    * [![YouTube logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/youtube.svg)Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/sysdig)
    * [![LinkedIn logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/linkedin.svg)LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/sysdig/)

* * *

![Sysdig logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sysdig-logo-new-
white.svg)

  * ® Copyright 2025 Sysdig, Inc.
  * [Privacy Policy](/legal/privacy-policy/)
  * [Privacy Choices](/legal/do-not-sell-or-share-my-personal-information/)
  * [Subprocessors](/legal/subprocessors/)
  * [Trust Center](/legal/trust-center/)
  * [Change Consent](javascript: Cookiebot.renew\(\))

