# Processed Content from URL: {'REFERENCE': 'https://sysdig.com/learn-cloud-native/aws-elastic-load-balancing-security/'}

[ Customers rate Sysdig top CNAPP in Customers' Choice category within
Gartner® VOC report  LEARN MORE ](https://sysdig.com/blog/sysdig-recognized-
as-customers-choice-in-gartner-voice-of-the-customer-for-cnapp/) [ BIG NEWS:
Sysdig unveils Stratoshark, the "Wireshark for the Cloud"  LEARN MORE
](https://sysdig.com/press-releases/sysdig-unveils-stratoshark-extending-
wireshark-to-cloud/) [ EMERALDWHALE: 15,000 creds stolen in operation
targeting Git config files  LEARN MORE
](https://sysdig.com/blog/emeraldwhale/) [ Hot off the press: The 2024 Sysdig
Global Threat Report is available now!   GET THE REPORT
](https://sysdig.com/content/c/pf-2024-global-threat-report?x=u_WFRi&lb-
mode=overlay) [ Sysdig is a Representative Vendor in the 2024 Gartner® Market
Guide for CNAPP  GET THE GUIDE ](https://go.sysdig.com/2024-gartner-market-
guide)

[ ![Sysdig logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sysdig-logo-new-
white.svg) Sysdig Home ](https://sysdig.com/)

[![Sysdig logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sysdig-logo-new-
white.svg)](https://sysdig.com/) ×

  * Platform
    * Back
    * Platform
    * Platform

      * [Sysdig SecureCNAPP powered by runtime insights](/products/platform/)
      * [Environments](/ecosystem/)
      * [Integrations](/integrations/)
    * Powered By

      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-falco.svg)FalcoThe core engine providing runtime insights to the Sysdig platform](/opensource/falco/)
    * hidden header

      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-sage.svg)Sysdig Sage™ GenAIAI cloud security analyst with multi-step reasoning](/generative-ai/)
    * [![SysDig 555 logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-feature-555-1-350x197.png)555 BenchmarkDetect and respond to cloud attacks faster than attackers can complete them](/555-benchmark/)
  * Solutions
    * Back
    * Solutions
    * Real-time Cloud Security

      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-cloud-native.svg)Cloud-Native Application Protection PlatformUnified cloud security to protect your cloud, containers, and workloads](/solutions/cloud-native-application-protection-platform/)
      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-ai-workload.svg)AI Workload SecurityDetect, prioritize, and remediate active AI risk](/ai-security-workflow/)
      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-cloud-detection.svg)Cloud Detection & ResponseDetect, investigate, and respond to threats at cloud speed](/solutions/cloud-threat-detection-and-response/)
    * From Prevention to Detection & Response

      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-cwpp.svg)Cloud Workload Protection](/solutions/cwpp/)
      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-vulnerability-management.svg)Vulnerability Management](/solutions/vulnerability-management/)
      * [![checklist icon](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-cloud-security-posture-management.svg)Cloud Security Posture Management](/solutions/cspm/)
      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-cloud-identity.svg)Cloud Identity & Entitlement Management](/solutions/permissions-entitlement-management/)
    * hidden

      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-container-security.svg)Container & Kubernetes Security](/solutions/container-and-kubernetes-security/)
      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-server-threat-detection.svg)Server Threat Detection & Response](/solutions/server-threat-detection/)
      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-infrastructure-as-code-security.svg)Infrastructure as Code Security](/solutions/infrastructure-as-code-security/)
    * [![Falco logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-feature-runtime-350x197.png)Cloud Security Requires Runtime InsightsReal-time visibility for detection and response and rich context to prioritize what matters most](/why-runtime-insights/)
  * Company
    * Back
    * Company
    * Why Sysdig

      * [Our CustomersHear how our customers secure and accelerate innovation in the cloud](/customers/)
      * [Runtime InsightsLearn how runtime insights powers real-time cloud security](/why-runtime-insights/)
      * [Threat Research TeamGet the latest threat research and security findings](/threat-research/)
    * About Sysdig

      * [Who We Are](/about/)
      * [Leadership Team](/company/leadership/)
      * [Newsroom](/newsroom/)
    * Compare Sysdig

      * [Aqua](/vs/aqua/)
      * [Crowdstrike](/vs/crowdstrike/)
      * [Lacework](/vs/lacework/)
      * [Orca](/vs/orca/)
      * [Prisma Cloud](/vs/prismacloud/)
      * [SentinelOne](/vs/sentinelone/)
      * [Wiz](/vs/wiz/)
    * [![Headshot of Dan Holden, VP of Cybersecurity at BigCommerce](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-feature-customer-350x197.jpg)Customer SpotlightBigCommerce achieves real-time cloud security](/customers/bigcommerce/)
  * Open Source
    * Back
    * Open Source
    * OSS

      * [Sysdig & OSSThe future of security is open](/opensource/)
    * Projects

      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-falco-1.svg)FalcoDetect threats in real time](/opensource/falco/)
      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-falco.svg)Falco Feeds by SysdigEnterprise detection rules for Falco users](/opensource/falco-feeds/)
      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/stratoshark_icon.svg)StratosharkAnalyze, troubleshoot, and secure cloud environments](https://sysdig.com/opensource/stratoshark/)
    * hidden

      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-open-policy-agent.svg)Open Policy AgentUnify policy enforcement for cloud-native environments](/opensource/open-policy-agent/)
      * [![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-icon-prometheus.svg)PrometheusMonitor cloud-native applications and Kubernetes](/opensource/prometheus/)
    * [![Headshot of Loris Degioanni - CTO and founder of Sysdig](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-feature-falco-350x197.jpg)Why Open Source MattersFalco’s journey to CNCF graduation](/blog/falco-cncf-graduation/)
  * Resources
    * Back
    * Resources
    * Learn

      * [BlogGet the latest news and insights from cloud security experts](/blog/)
      * [Learn Cloud NativeLearn cloud and container security fundamentals](/learn-cloud-native/)
      * [Content LibraryExplore cloud and container security content](/content-library/)
    * Engage

      * [Webinars & Workshops](/content-library/webinars/)
      * [Events](/content-library/events/)
      * [Contact Us](/contact-us/)
    * Get Support

      * [Contact Support](/support/)
      * [Sysdig Status](/company/sysdig-status/)
      * [Docs](https://docs.sysdig.com/)
    * [![Sysdig Threat Research thumbnail](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-feature-trt-350x197.png)Sysdig Threat ResearchSecurity research focused on the latest cloud-native security threats, vulnerabilities, and attack patterns](/threat-research/)

  * ![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/themes/sysdig/assets/images/search-white.svg) Search
    * Back
    * Search for: Search
    * Best Match

View all search results

  * ![](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/themes/sysdig/assets/images/globe-white.svg) Languages
    * Back
    * Language
    * Language Header - Hidden

      * [Deutsch](https://de.sysdig.com/)
      * [English](https://sysdig.com/)
      * [Español](https://sysdig.es/)
      * [Français](https://fr.sysdig.com/)
      * [Italiano](https://it.sysdig.com/)
      * [日本](https://sysdig.jp/)
  * Log In
    * Back
    * Log In
    * Monitor

      * [US-East](https://app.sysdigcloud.com/#/login)
      * [US-West](https://us2.app.sysdig.com/#/login)
      * [EU-Central](https://eu1.app.sysdig.com/#/login)
      * [AWS-AP-Sydney](https://app.au1.sysdig.com/#/login)
      * [AWS-AP-South](https://app.in1.sysdig.com)
      * [GCP-US-West](https://app.us4.sysdig.com/#/login)
    * Secure

      * [US-East](https://secure.sysdig.com/#/login)
      * [US-West](https://us2.app.sysdig.com/secure/#/login)
      * [EU-Central](https://eu1.app.sysdig.com/secure/#/login)
      * [AWS-AP-Sydney](https://app.au1.sysdig.com/secure/#/login)
      * [AWS-AP-South](https://app.in1.sysdig.com/secure)
      * [GCP-US-West](https://app.us4.sysdig.com/secure/#/login)
    * Log In - 3rd Column Header - HIdden

      * [Support](https://cx.sysdig.com/)
  * [Get Demo](/request-a-demo/)
  * [![SysDig 555 logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sd-nav-feature-555-1-350x197.png)555 BenchmarkDetect and respond to cloud attacks faster than attackers can complete them](/555-benchmark/)

[LCN HOME](/learn-cloud-native/)

# AWS Elastic Load Balancing Security

SHARE:

[ ![Facebook logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-
content/uploads/facebook-3-logo-1-1.png)
](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https://sysdig.com/learn-cloud-
native/aws-elastic-load-balancing-security/) [ ![LinkedIn
logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/Vector-1-2.png)
](https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://sysdig.com/learn-
cloud-native/aws-elastic-load-balancing-security/) [ ![X \(formerly Twitter\)
logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/twitter-x-logo-black-
round-20851.svg)
](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=https://sysdig.com/learn-cloud-
native/aws-elastic-load-balancing-security/&text=)

## Table of Contents

### What you'll learn

  * ELBs and How They Work
  * Different ELB Types and Their Advantages
  * Understanding the Shared Responsibility Model
  * ELB Security Risks
  * Best Practices for ELB Security

  * Using Security Groups to Secure Your ELB and Applications
  * Next Steps

## Table of Contents

ELBs and How They Work

Different ELB Types and Their Advantages

Understanding the Shared Responsibility Model

ELB Security Risks

Best Practices for ELB Security

Using Security Groups to Secure Your ELB and Applications

Next Steps

One of the overwhelming benefits of hosting your applications in the cloud is
the ability to scale exponentially as the demands on your services increase.
Amazon Web Service’s Elastic Load Balancing (ELB) service is integral to a
scalable architecture. This article will cover the basics of ELBs, including
the different types and advantages.

We’ll also dive deep into securing your ELB resources properly and protecting
the applications, services, and other resources behind them. In addition,
we’ll talk about the type of threats an ELB might face and some best practices
and strategies you can use to protect your ELBs.

## **ELBs and How They Work**

Before we get into how ELBs work, you should be familiar with two terms:
listeners and target groups. A listener is a process that listens for connect
requests to your load balancer. You configure a listener with a protocol and a
port. ELB supports the TCP, TLS, UDP, or TCP_UTP protocols. Ports can be
between 1 and 65, 535 (such as port 80 for web traffic and port 443 for
encrypted traffic).

A target group is a destination for traffic that comes through the ELB. ELBs
provide a single entry point for traffic coming into your AWS account. The ELB
routes that traffic across multiple destinations. The destination might be a
cluster of EC2 instances in an Autoscaling Group (ASG), and some also support
routing to AWS Lambda functions and containerized applications. ELBs maintain
a list of healthy targets by performing health checks, adding new resources,
and removing expired resources as needed. ELBs can manage target groups in
multiple Availability Zones (AZs), which means that if resources in an AZ are
unavailable, the ELB automatically routes requests to available resources in
another AZ.

Different types of ELBs can route traffic based on various elements within the
HTTP stack. Next, we’ll discuss the different kinds of ELBs, including their
performance and dynamic routing advantages. The ELB service can be configured
with an SSL certificate using the AWS Certificate Manager (ACM) to accept and
validate HTTPS requests from your clients.

## **Different ELB Types and Their Advantages**

AWS released its Classic Load Balancer as one of the early services available
on its cloud platform. While the Classic ELB covers most use cases, they have
since released more specialized load balancer types that offer distinct
routing options and levels of performance. The routing options in these ELBs
work with different layers in the [Open Systems Interconnection model, or
OSI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OSI_model).

We have listed each type of load balancer below, along with a brief
description of the benefits and advantages of each one. If you need more
information about a specific kind or would like to learn more about their
capabilities, AWS has documented the full feature set in a [product comparison
table](https://aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/features/#Product_comparisons).

### **Classic Load Balancers (ELB)**

The Classic Load Balancer is the simplest version of ELB available in AWS. It
provides clients with a single entry point and balances the incoming requests
across EC2 instances. The ELB performs regular health checks on each of the
instances in the target group and ensures that it only routes requests to
healthy and responsive instances.

The Classic ELB supports TCP and SSL requests, and it also supports _sticky
session_ , which uses an application-generated cookie to route requests from
the same client to the same target instance. This ELB is simple, battle-
tested, and reliable. Unfortunately, it is limited in the scope of the types
of routing and only supports routing the EC2 instances.

### **Application Load Balancers (ALB)**

Application Load Balancers, or ALBs, are especially useful in cases where you
want to route requests based on the contents in layer 7 of the OSI, or the
application layer. You do this by adding listeners to the ALB with a rule or
set of rules. When a request matches these rules, the listener routes the
request to the associated target group.

An ALB allows you to route requests based on the following:

  * Parameters in the path of the URL of the request
  * HTTP Headers such as: 
    * The host
    * Query parameters
    * Source IP address

ALBs provide support for routing to Lambda functions as targets and
containerized applications running within the Amazon Elastic Container
Service, or Amazon ECS. The ALB manages the health checks for each target
group independently, providing improved resiliency. You will also have access
to more detailed logs than are available with the original Classic ELB.

An additional advantage to using an ALB is that you can configure the
listeners to authenticate users with an OpenID Connect (OIDC) Identity
Provider (IdP), such as Amazon Cognito. This approach improves security at the
load balancer and offloads the burden of authentication from the application.

### **Network Load Balancer (NLB)**

If your application needs a highly performant load balancer that can handle
millions of requests per second, you should consider the Network Load Balancer
(NLB). NLBs operate at layer 4 of the OSI, or the transport layer.

The speed and scalability of the NLB are the primary reasons to select it;
however, some of the features that are available in other ELB types (such as
SSL termination and parameter-based routing) aren’t available as part of the
NLB configuration.

### **Gateway Load Balancer**

The final type of ELB available from AWS (at least for now) is the Gateway
Load Balancer. This load balancer operates at layer 3 of the OSI, or the
network layer. The Gateway Load Balancer is also an excellent choice if you
need to support secure communication across VPC boundaries and can manage
virtual network appliances.

The Gateway Load Balancer supports use cases like adding additional network
appliances to your load balancing resources, such as firewalls, deep packet
inspection, and intrusion detection and prevention. You can add these virtual
appliances as target groups to the load balancer, and you configure them with
a route table entry in the load balancer.

## **Understanding the Shared Responsibility Model**

Regarding security, AWS (like most cloud platforms) operates on a shared
responsibility model. The best way to describe this is that AWS is responsible
for the protection **_of_** the cloud, and the customer is responsible for
security **_in_ **the cloud. This model means that AWS will protect the cloud
infrastructure, including the hardware, software, networking, and facilities
that house the infrastructure.

AWS offers its users a vast array of capabilities and configuration options.
Users of the different AWS services are responsible for ensuring that they
configure those services correctly and set up appropriate security measures to
protect those resources and the data they transfer, process, and store.

ELBs, like any other cloud service, have unique security challenges, and AWS
provides the tools and configurations to mitigate these risks. Let’s explore
what risks an ELB might face, and with that understanding, we can address how
best to manage them.

## **ELB Security Risks**

When we discuss application security, our primary concern is the attack
surface. The attack surface is the part of your application that is exposed to
the internet – and the part that a malicious actor can access. If a hacker can
successfully compromise this entry point, they can gain unauthorized access to
your application and your data. Using an ELB allows you to secure and protect
the resources hosting your application behind it. This means that the primary
attack surface for your application is the ELB.

## **Best Practices for ELB Security**

Before we discuss ELB security directly, ensuring that your AWS account is
properly secured is essential. AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) is
central to the security of your account. It doesn’t matter how much security
you apply to the resources in your account. If someone can gain access to IAM,
all of that is for naught. Ensure that you have tightly managed access
controls to your account, including [implementing the principle of least
privilege](https://sysdig.com/blog/cspm-least-privilege-principle/) and
requiring MFA authentication on every account.

When you add listeners to a load balancer, ensure that they support and
require encrypted communication between your clients and the load balancer.
Depending on the type of load balancer you choose, it’s best to use either a
TLS or an HTTPS listener to enforce this.

Within your Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), you can create internal and external
ELBs. You should only configure a public IP address on those ELBs required to
accept incoming requests from outside the VPC. Suppose you are using an ALB to
allow ingress from outside the VPC. In that case, you can enable
authentication on the listeners to validate all incoming requests and offload
the authentication burden from the targeted application.

As an additional layer of protection, you might consider setting up a Web
Application Firewall, such as AWS WAF, to restrict incoming requests from a
defined range of IP addresses, geo-specific locations, and other criteria. You
can also create a network Access Control List (ACL) that further defines who
and what can access your VPC.

## **Using Security Groups to Secure Your ELB and Applications**

Within your VPC, you can create security groups to define access to AWS
resources. As an additional layer of security, AWS denies all access to
resources unless explicitly allowed by an access rule in the security group.
Security group rules require a combination of protocol and port number(s) and
apply to either inbound or outbound traffic from the resources to which it is
attached. As the responsible party for configuring a security group, you can
configure the rules as broad or as narrow as you would like. A best practice
is to limit the port and IP address ranges as much as possible.

The target groups of your ELB should have a security group applied that limits
incoming requests to the ELB, ensuring that all incoming requests come through
the load balancer. Additionally, you can add a security group to the load
balancer to limit which clients can send requests.

## **Next Steps**

AWS Elastic Load Balancers are a critical architectural component that allows
your applications to scale seamlessly and as securely as possible. Your use
case will determine which load balancer type best meets your requirements, and
you are responsible for configuring the security and access rules to maintain
a secure and performant environment. The [Amazon
documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/userguide/what-
is-load-balancing.html) on the different load balancing solutions is kept
current with the latest user guides and recommendations. As you consider the
various options, pay close attention to the benefits of each, and design a
scalable solution that meets the needs of your consumers while simultaneously
maintaining the security of your applications.

  * Products
    * [Sysdig Secure](/products/platform/)
    * [Sysdig Monitor](/products/monitor/)
  * Partners
    * [Sysdig Partners](/partners/)
    * [Deal Registration](https://sysdig.com/deal-registration/)
    * [Partner Signup](https://sysdig.com/partnerships-contact/)
    * [Partner Locator](https://sysdig.com/partner-locator/)
    * [Integrations](https://sysdig.com/integrations/)
    * [Partner Portal](https://partnercentral.sysdig.com/)
  * Company
    * [About Us](/about/)
    * [Leadership](/company/leadership/)
    * [Careers](/careers/)
    * [Newsroom](/newsroom/)
    * [Contact Us](/contact-us/)
    * [Legal](/legal/)
    * [Sitemap](/sitemap/)
  * Support
    * [Support](/support/)
    * [Sysdig Status](/company/sysdig-status/)
    * [Documentation](https://docs.sysdig.com/)
    * [Customer Success](/support/customer-success/)
  * Social
    * [![X \(Formerly Twitter\) logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/twitter.svg)Twitter](https://twitter.com/sysdig)
    * [![Github logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/github.svg)Github](https://github.com/draios)
    * [![Slack logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/slack.svg)Slack](https://slack.sysdig.com/)
    * [![YouTube logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/youtube.svg)Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/sysdig)
    * [![LinkedIn logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/linkedin.svg)LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/sysdig/)

* * *

![Sysdig logo](https://sysdig.com/wp-content/uploads/sysdig-logo-new-
white.svg)

  * ® Copyright 2025 Sysdig, Inc.
  * [Privacy Policy](/legal/privacy-policy/)
  * [Privacy Choices](/legal/do-not-sell-or-share-my-personal-information/)
  * [Subprocessors](/legal/subprocessors/)
  * [Trust Center](/legal/trust-center/)
  * [Change Consent](javascript: Cookiebot.renew\(\))

