# Processed Content from URL: {'REFERENCE': 'https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELB/'}

  * [ Sign In ](https://www.cloudconformity.com/identity/sign-in.html)
  * [ Buy ](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-g232pyu6l55l4?applicationId=AWSMPContessa)
  * [ Free Trial  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/SignUp.screen?)

* * *

[ ![Logo of Trend
Micro](/cloudoneconformity/assets/v2/images/common/logo.svg?1740361707617976185)
](https://trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/)

  * Knowledge Base 

    * [ AWS ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/)
    * [ Azure ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/azure/)
    * [ GCP ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/gcp/)
    * [ Conformity ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/cloudconformity/)
    * [ Alibaba Cloud ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/alibaba-cloud/)

  * Products 

    * [ Cloud Oneâ¢ - Conformity ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-conformity)
    * [ All Cloud Oneâ¢ Services ](https://www.trendmicro.com/hybridcloud)

  * [ Help  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/docs/conformity/)
  * 

  * Knowledge Base 

    * [ AWS  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/)
    * [ Azure  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/azure/)
    * [ GCP  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/gcp/)
    * [ Conformity  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/cloudconformity/)
    * [ Alibaba Cloud  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/alibaba-cloud/)

  * Products 

    * [ Cloud Oneâ¢ - Conformity  ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-conformity)
    * [ All Cloud Oneâ¢ Services  ](https://www.trendmicro.com/hybridcloud)

  * [ Help  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/docs/conformity/)

  * [ Sign In  ](https://www.cloudconformity.com/identity/sign-in.html)
  * [ Buy  ](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-g232pyu6l55l4?applicationId=AWSMPContessa)
  * [ Free Trial  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/SignUp.screen?)

Use the Conformity Knowledge Base AI to help improve your Cloud Posture [ ð¬
Conformity Knowledge Base AI >
](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/ai-assistant-kb.html)

  * [Knowledge Base](/knowledge-base/ "Best practice knowledge base homepage")
  * [Amazon Web Services](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ "Best practice knowledge base for Amazon Web Services")
  * Elastic Load Balancing

# AWS ELB Best Practices

AWS

##  Best practice rules for Elastic Load Balancing

Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) distributes all incoming system traffic
automatically between your EC2 instances. This service enables high
availability and fault tolerance by evenly distributing the incoming load
between your virtual machines.

  * [App-Tier ELB Listener Security](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELB/app-tier-elb-https-listener.html)

Ensure app-tier ELB listener uses a secure HTTPS or SSL protocol.

  * [App-Tier ELB Security Policy](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELB/app-tier-elb-latest-ssl-security-policies.html)

Ensure app-tier ELBs use the latest predefined security policies.

  * [App-Tier ELBs Health Check](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELB/app-tier-elb-health-check.html)

Ensure app tier Elastic Load Balancer has application layer health check
configured.

  * [Classic Load Balancer](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELB/elb-classic.html)

Ensure HTTP/HTTPS applications are using Application Load Balancer instead of
Classic Load Balancer for cost and web traffic distribution optimization.

  * [Configure HTTP Desync Mitigation Mode for Classic Load Balancers](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELB/enable-configure-desync-mitigation-mode.html)

Ensure that the suitable Desync Mitigation mode is configured for your Classic
Load Balancers.

  * [ELB Access Log](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELB/elb-access-log.html)

Ensure ELB access logging is enabled for security, troubleshooting, and
statistical analysis purposes

  * [ELB Connection Draining Enabled](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELB/elb-connection-draining-enabled.html)

Ensure connection draining is enabled for all load balancers.

  * [ELB Cross-Zone Load Balancing Enabled](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELB/elb-cross-zone-load-balancing-enabled.html)

Ensure Cross-Zone Load Balancing is enabled for all load balancers. Also
select at least two subnets in different availability zones to provide higher
availability.

  * [ELB Insecure SSL Ciphers](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELB/elb-insecure-ssl-ciphers.html)

Ensure ELBs don't use insecure SSL ciphers.

  * [ELB Insecure SSL Protocols](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELB/elb-insecure-ssl-protocols.html)

Ensure ELBs don't use insecure SSL protocols.

  * [ELB Instances Distribution Across AZs](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELB/ec2-instances-distribution-across-availability-zones.html)

Ensure even distribution of backend instances registered to an ELB across
Availability Zones.

  * [ELB Listener Security](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELB/elb-listener-security.html)

Ensure ELB listener uses a secure HTTPS or SSL protocol.

  * [ELB Minimum Number Of EC2 Instances](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELB/elb-minimum-number-of-ec2-instances.html)

Ensure there is a minimum number of two healthy backend instances associated
with each ELB.

  * [ELB Security Group](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELB/elb-security-group.html)

Check your Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) security layer for at least one valid
security group that restricts access only to the ports defined in the load
balancer listener's configuration

  * [ELB Security Policy](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELB/elb-security-policy.html)

Ensure ELBs use the latest predefined security policies.

  * [Idle Elastic Load Balancer](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELB/idle-elastic-load-balancer.html)

Identify idle Elastic Load Balancers (ELBs) and terminate them in order to
optimize AWS costs.

  * [Internet Facing ELBs](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELB/internet-facing-load-balancers.html)

Ensure Amazon internet-facing ELBs/ALBs are regularly reviewed for security
purposes.

  * [Unused Elastic Load Balancers](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELB/unused-elastic-load-balancers.html)

Identify unused Elastic Load Balancers, and delete them to help lower the cost
of your monthly AWS bill.

  * [Web-Tier ELB Listener Security](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELB/web-tier-elb-https-listener.html)

Ensure web-tier ELB listener uses a secure HTTPS or SSL protocol.

  * [Web-Tier ELB Security Policy](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELB/web-tier-elb-latest-ssl-security-policies.html)

Ensure web-tier ELBs use the latest predefined security policies.

  * [Web-Tier ELBs Health Check](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELB/web-tier-elb-health-check.html)

Ensure web tier Elastic Load Balancer has application layer health check
configured.

* * *

Whether your cloud exploration is just starting to take shape, youâre mid-
way through a migration or youâre already running complex workloads in the
cloud, Conformity offers full visibility into your overall security and
governance posture across various standards and frameworks.

##  Continuous security & compliance for cloud environments. Grow and scale
your business with confidence

[ Try it for free  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/SignUp.screen?) [ Get
pricing  ](https://resources.trendmicro.com/cloud-one-conformity-pricing.html)

Products

  * [ Conformity ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-conformity)
  * [ Workload Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-workload)
  * [ Container Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-image)
  * [ File Storage Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-file)
  * [ Application Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-app)
  * [ Network Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-net)

Solutions For

  * [ Cloud Migration ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloud-migration-security)
  * [ Cloud Operational Excellence ](https://www.trendmicro.com/opexcellence)
  * [ Cloud Native App Development ](https://www.trendmicro.com/nativeappdev)
  * [ Data Center Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/security-data-center-virtualization)

Help

  * [ Help by Topic ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/docs/conformity/)
  * [ Help AI Assistant ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/ai-assistant-help.html)
  * [ API Documentation ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/docs/conformity/api-reference/)
  * [ Contact Us ](https://resources.trendmicro.com/Hybrid-Cloud-Security-Contact-Us.html)
  * [ Knowledge Base AI Assistant ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/ai-assistant-kb.html)

Company

  * [ About Us ](https://www.trendmicro.com/about)
  * [ Careers ](https://www.trendmicro.com/careers)
  * [ Newsroom ](https://www.trendmicro.com/newsroom)

Privacy and Protection

  * [ Terms and Conditions ](https://www.cloudconformity.com/terms-and-conditions.html)
  * [ Privacy Policy ](https://www.trendmicro.com/privacy)
  * [ Report a Security Vulnerability ](https://www.cloudconformity.com/responsible-disclosure.html)

[ ](https://www.facebook.com/TrendMicro/) [ ](https://twitter.com/trendmicro)
[ ](https://www.linkedin.com/company/trend-micro) [
](http://feeds.trendmicro.com/TrendMicroSimplySecurity) [
](https://www.youtube.com/user/TrendMicroInc)

Copyright Â© 2025 Trend Micro Incorporated. All rights reserved. Version
v1.188.9-383-geea80320

