# Processed Content from URL: {'REFERENCE': 'https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELBv2/'}

  * [ Sign In ](https://www.cloudconformity.com/identity/sign-in.html)
  * [ Buy ](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-g232pyu6l55l4?applicationId=AWSMPContessa)
  * [ Free Trial  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/SignUp.screen?)

* * *

[ ![Logo of Trend
Micro](/cloudoneconformity/assets/v2/images/common/logo.svg?1740361707617976185)
](https://trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/)

  * Knowledge Base 

    * [ AWS ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/)
    * [ Azure ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/azure/)
    * [ GCP ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/gcp/)
    * [ Conformity ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/cloudconformity/)
    * [ Alibaba Cloud ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/alibaba-cloud/)

  * Products 

    * [ Cloud Oneâ¢ - Conformity ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-conformity)
    * [ All Cloud Oneâ¢ Services ](https://www.trendmicro.com/hybridcloud)

  * [ Help  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/docs/conformity/)
  * 

  * Knowledge Base 

    * [ AWS  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/)
    * [ Azure  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/azure/)
    * [ GCP  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/gcp/)
    * [ Conformity  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/cloudconformity/)
    * [ Alibaba Cloud  ](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/alibaba-cloud/)

  * Products 

    * [ Cloud Oneâ¢ - Conformity  ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-conformity)
    * [ All Cloud Oneâ¢ Services  ](https://www.trendmicro.com/hybridcloud)

  * [ Help  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/docs/conformity/)

  * [ Sign In  ](https://www.cloudconformity.com/identity/sign-in.html)
  * [ Buy  ](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-g232pyu6l55l4?applicationId=AWSMPContessa)
  * [ Free Trial  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/SignUp.screen?)

Use the Conformity Knowledge Base AI to help improve your Cloud Posture [ ð¬
Conformity Knowledge Base AI >
](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/ai-assistant-kb.html)

  * [Knowledge Base](/knowledge-base/ "Best practice knowledge base homepage")
  * [Amazon Web Services](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ "Best practice knowledge base for Amazon Web Services")
  * Elastic Load Balancing V2

# AWS ELBv2 Best Practices

AWS

##  Best practice rules for Elastic Load Balancing V2

  * [Configure HTTP Desync Mitigation Mode for Application Load Balancers](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELBv2/configure-desync-mitigation-mode.html)

Ensure that the suitable Desync Mitigation mode is configured for your
Application Load Balancers.

  * [Configure Multiple Availability Zones for Gateway Load Balancers](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELBv2/enable-multi-az.html)

Ensure that Amazon Gateway Load Balancers are using Multi-AZ configurations.

  * [Drop Invalid Header Fields for Application Load Balancers](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELBv2/drop-invalid-header-fields-enabled.html)

Ensure that Drop Invalid Header Fields feature is enabled for your Application
Load Balancers to remove non-standard headers.

  * [ELBv2 ALB Listener Security](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELBv2/listener-security.html)

Ensure ELBv2 ALBs are using a secure protocol.

  * [ELBv2 ALB Security Group](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELBv2/security-group.html)

Ensure ELBv2 load balancers have secure and valid security groups.

  * [ELBv2 ALB Security Policy](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELBv2/security-policy.html)

Ensure that Amazon ALBs are using the latest predefined security policy for
their SSL negotiation configuration in order to follow security best practices
and protect their front-end connections against SSL/TLS vulnerabilities.

  * [ELBv2 Access Log](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELBv2/access-log.html)

Ensure that Amazon ALBs have Access Logging feature enabled for security,
troubleshooting and statistical analysis purposes.

  * [ELBv2 Elastic Load Balancing Deletion Protection](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELBv2/deletion-protection.html)

Ensure ELBv2 Load Balancers have Deletion Protection feature enabled in order
to protect them from being accidentally deleted.

  * [ELBv2 Minimum Number of EC2 Target Instances](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELBv2/minimum-number-of-ec2-instances.html)

Ensure there is a minimum number of two healthy target instances associated
with each AWS ELBv2 load balancer.

  * [ELBv2 NLB Listener Security](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELBv2/network-load-balancer-listener-security.html)

Ensure that your AWS Network Load Balancer listeners are using a secure
protocol such as TLS.

  * [Enable Amazon WAF Integration for Application Load Balancers](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELBv2/alb-integrated-with-waf.html)

Use Amazon WAF to protect Application Load Balancers from common web exploits.

  * [Enable Cross-Zone Load Balancing](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELBv2/enable-cross-zone-load-balancing.html)

Ensure fault tolerance for your Amazon Gateway Load Balancers by enabling
Cross-Zone Load Balancing.

  * [Enable Deletion Protection](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELBv2/enable-gwlb-deletion-protection.html)

Ensure that Deletion Protection is enabled for Amazon Gateway Load Balancers.

  * [Enable HTTP to HTTPS Redirect for Application Load Balancers](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELBv2/http-to-https-redirect.html)

Ensure that your Application Load Balancers have a rule that redirects HTTP
traffic to HTTPS.

  * [Enable Least Outstanding Requests Algorithm](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELBv2/enable-alb-least-outstanding-requests.html)

Ensure that Least Outstanding Requests (LOR) algorithm is enabled for your AWS
Application Load Balancers (ALBs).

  * [Enable Support for HTTP/2](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELBv2/enable-http2-support.html)

Ensure that HTTP/2 support is enabled for Amazon Application Load Balancers
(ALBs).

  * [Enable Support for gRPC Protocol](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELBv2/enable-grpc-support.html)

Ensure that support for gRPC protocol is enabled for Application Load
Balancers (ALBs).

  * [Enable TLS ALPN Policy for Network Load Balancers](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELBv2/enable-tlsalpn-policy.html)

Ensure that your AWS Network Load Balancers are using TLS ALPN policies.

  * [Internet Facing ELBv2 Load Balancers](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELBv2/internet-facing-load-balancers.html)

Ensure Amazon internet-facing ELBv2 Load Balancers are regularly reviewed for
security purposes.

  * [Network Load Balancer Security Policy](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELBv2/network-load-balancer-security-policy.html)

Ensure Amazon Network Load Balancers (NLBs) are using the latest recommended
predefined security policy for TLS negotiation configuration.

  * [Unused ELBv2 Load Balancers](/cloudoneconformity/knowledge-base/aws/ELBv2/unused-load-balancers.html)

Identify unused ELBv2 Elastic Load Balancers, and delete them to help lower
the cost of your monthly AWS bill.

* * *

Whether your cloud exploration is just starting to take shape, youâre mid-
way through a migration or youâre already running complex workloads in the
cloud, Conformity offers full visibility into your overall security and
governance posture across various standards and frameworks.

##  Continuous security & compliance for cloud environments. Grow and scale
your business with confidence

[ Try it for free  ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/SignUp.screen?) [ Get
pricing  ](https://resources.trendmicro.com/cloud-one-conformity-pricing.html)

Products

  * [ Conformity ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-conformity)
  * [ Workload Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-workload)
  * [ Container Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-image)
  * [ File Storage Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-file)
  * [ Application Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-app)
  * [ Network Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudone-net)

Solutions For

  * [ Cloud Migration ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloud-migration-security)
  * [ Cloud Operational Excellence ](https://www.trendmicro.com/opexcellence)
  * [ Cloud Native App Development ](https://www.trendmicro.com/nativeappdev)
  * [ Data Center Security ](https://www.trendmicro.com/security-data-center-virtualization)

Help

  * [ Help by Topic ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/docs/conformity/)
  * [ Help AI Assistant ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/ai-assistant-help.html)
  * [ API Documentation ](https://cloudone.trendmicro.com/docs/conformity/api-reference/)
  * [ Contact Us ](https://resources.trendmicro.com/Hybrid-Cloud-Security-Contact-Us.html)
  * [ Knowledge Base AI Assistant ](https://www.trendmicro.com/cloudoneconformity/ai-assistant-kb.html)

Company

  * [ About Us ](https://www.trendmicro.com/about)
  * [ Careers ](https://www.trendmicro.com/careers)
  * [ Newsroom ](https://www.trendmicro.com/newsroom)

Privacy and Protection

  * [ Terms and Conditions ](https://www.cloudconformity.com/terms-and-conditions.html)
  * [ Privacy Policy ](https://www.trendmicro.com/privacy)
  * [ Report a Security Vulnerability ](https://www.cloudconformity.com/responsible-disclosure.html)

[ ](https://www.facebook.com/TrendMicro/) [ ](https://twitter.com/trendmicro)
[ ](https://www.linkedin.com/company/trend-micro) [
](http://feeds.trendmicro.com/TrendMicroSimplySecurity) [
](https://www.youtube.com/user/TrendMicroInc)

Copyright Â© 2025 Trend Micro Incorporated. All rights reserved. Version
v1.188.9-383-geea80320

