# Processed Content from URL: {'REFERENCE': 'https://docs.aws.amazon.com/network-manager/latest/cloudwan/cloudwan-security.html'}

[](/pdfs/network-manager/latest/cloudwan/cloudwan.pdf#cloudwan-security "Open
PDF")

[Documentation](/index.html)[AWS Network Manager](/vpc/index.html)[AWS Cloud
WAN User Guide](what-is-cloudwan.html)

Identity and access managementTag core network resources

# Authentication and access in AWS Cloud WAN

AWS Cloud WAN uses service-linked roles for the permissions that it requires
to call other AWS services on your behalf. For more information on the Network
Manager service-lined role, see [AWS Global Networks for Transit Gateways
service-linked roles](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/network-
manager/latest/tgwnm/nm-service-linked-roles.html).

## Identity and access management for AWS Cloud WAN

AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) is an AWS service that helps an
administrator securely control access to AWS resources. IAM administrators
control who can be authenticated (signed in) and authorized (have permissions)
to use AWS Cloud WAN resources. IAM is an AWS service that you can use with no
additional charge. You can use features of IAM to allow other users, services,
and applications to use your AWS resources fully or in a limited way, without
sharing your security credentials.

By default, IAM users don't have permission to create, view, or modify AWS
resources. To allow an IAM user to access resources, such as a global network,
and perform tasks, you must:

  * Create an IAM policy that grants the user permission to use the specific resources and API actions they need

  * Attach the policy to the IAM user or to the group to which the user belongs

When you attach a policy to a user or group of users, it allows or denies the
user permissions to perform the specified tasks on the specified resources.

###### Important

If you grant access to a global network you grant access to all AWS service
data associated with the core network edges across all AWS Regions. For more
information, see [How Network Manager works with
IAM](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/network-manager/latest/tgwnm/nm-security-
iam.html#nm-with-iam).

### Condition keys

The `Condition` element (or Condition block) lets you specify conditions in
which a statement is in effect. The Condition element is optional. You can
build conditional expressions that use condition operators, such as equals or
less than, to match the condition in the policy with values in the request.
For more information, see [IAM JSON policy elements: Condition
operators](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies_elements_condition_operators.html)
in the _AWS Identity and Access Management User Guide_.

If you specify multiple `Condition` elements in a statement, or multiple keys
in a single `Condition` element, AWS evaluates them using a logical `AND`
operation. If you specify multiple values for a single condition key, AWS
evaluates the condition using a logical `OR` operation. All of the conditions
must be met before the statement's permissions are granted.

You can also use placeholder variables when you specify conditions. For
example, you can grant an IAM user permission to access a resource only if it
is tagged with their IAM user name.

You can attach tags to AWS Cloud WAN resources or pass tags in a request to
Cloud WAN. To control access based on tags, you provide tag information in the
condition element of a policy using the `aws:ResourceTag/key-name`,
`aws:RequestTag/key-name`, or `aws:TagKeys` condition keys. See [IAM JSON
policy elements:
Condition](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies_elements_condition.html)
in the _AWS Identity and Access Management User Guide_ for more information.

To see all AWS global condition keys, see [AWS global condition context
keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies_condition-
keys.html) in the _AWS Identity and Access Management User Guide_.

AWS Cloud WAN supports the following condition keys:

  * `networkmanager:vpcArn` â Filters access by which VPC can be used to create or update an attachment.

  * `networkmanager:subnetArns` â Filters access by which VPC subnets can be added or removed from a VPC attachment.

  * `networkmanager:vpnConnectionArn` â Filters access by which site-to-site VPN can be used to create or update an attachment.

For more information see the following:

  * For information on supported condition keys, see [Condition keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/network-manager/latest/tgwnm/nm-security-iam.html#nm-iam-condition-keys).

  * For example policies to manage, see [Example policies to manage](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/network-manager/latest/tgwnm/nm-security-iam.html#nm-example-iam-policies).

## Tag core network resources

A tag is a metadata label that either you or AWS assigns to an AWS resource.
Each tag consists of a key and a value. For tags that you assign, you define
the key and the value. For example, you might define the key as `purpose` and
the value as `test` for one resource. Tags help you do the following:

  * Identify and organize your AWS resources. Many AWS services support tagging, so you can assign the same tag to resources from different services to indicate that the resources are related. 

  * Control access to your AWS resources. For more information, see [Controlling access to AWS resources using tags](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_tags.html) in the _AWS Identify and Access Management User Guide_.

### Supported resources

The following core network resources support tagging:

  * Core network

  * Core network attachments

  * Connect peer

For tagging supported resources, see [Tag your Network Manager
resources](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/network-manager/latest/tgwnm/gnw-
tagging.html).

![Warning](https://d1ge0kk1l5kms0.cloudfront.net/images/G/01/webservices/console/warning.png)
**Javascript is disabled or is unavailable in your browser.**

To use the Amazon Web Services Documentation, Javascript must be enabled.
Please refer to your browser's Help pages for instructions.

[Document Conventions](/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

Access transit gateway dashboards

AWS managed policies

Did this page help you? - Yes

Thanks for letting us know we're doing a good job!

If you've got a moment, please tell us what we did right so we can do more of
it.

Did this page help you? - No

Thanks for letting us know this page needs work. We're sorry we let you down.

If you've got a moment, please tell us how we can make the documentation
better.

