# Processed Content from URL: {'REFERENCE': 'https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.html'}

[](/pdfs/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/aurora-ug.pdf#UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth
"Open PDF")

[Documentation](/index.html)[Amazon RDS](/rds/index.html)[User Guide for
Aurora](CHAP_AuroraOverview.html)

Region and version availabilityCLI and SDK
supportLimitationsRecommendationsUnsupported AWS global condition context keys

# IAM database authentication

You can authenticate to your DB cluster using AWS Identity and Access
Management (IAM) database authentication. IAM database authentication works
with Aurora MySQL, and Aurora PostgreSQL. With this authentication method, you
don't need to use a password when you connect to a DB cluster. Instead, you
use an authentication token.

An _authentication token_ is a unique string of characters that Amazon Aurora
generates on request. Authentication tokens are generated using AWS Signature
Version 4. Each token has a lifetime of 15 minutes. You don't need to store
user credentials in the database, because authentication is managed externally
using IAM. You can also still use standard database authentication. The token
is only used for authentication and doesn't affect the session after it is
established.

IAM database authentication provides the following benefits:

  * Network traffic to and from the database is encrypted using Secure Socket Layer (SSL) or Transport Layer Security (TLS). For more information about using SSL/TLS with Amazon Aurora, see [Using SSL/TLS to encrypt a connection to a DB cluster](./UsingWithRDS.SSL.html).

  * You can use IAM to centrally manage access to your database resources, instead of managing access individually on each DB cluster.

  * For applications running on Amazon EC2, you can use profile credentials specific to your EC2 instance to access your database instead of a password, for greater security.

In general, consider using IAM database authentication when your applications
create fewer than 200 connections per second, and you don't want to manage
usernames and passwords directly in your application code.

The Amazon Web Services (AWS) JDBC Driver supports IAM database
authentication. For more information, see [AWS IAM Authentication
Plugin](https://github.com/aws/aws-advanced-jdbc-wrapper/blob/main/docs/using-
the-jdbc-driver/using-plugins/UsingTheIamAuthenticationPlugin.md) in the
[Amazon Web Services (AWS) JDBC Driver GitHub
repository](https://github.com/aws/aws-advanced-jdbc-wrapper).

The Amazon Web Services (AWS) Python Driver supports IAM database
authentication. For more information, see [AWS IAM Authentication
Plugin](https://github.com/aws/aws-advanced-python-
wrapper/blob/main/docs/using-the-python-driver/using-
plugins/UsingTheIamAuthenticationPlugin.md) in the [Amazon Web Services (AWS)
Python Driver GitHub repository](https://github.com/aws/aws-advanced-python-
wrapper).

Navigate through the following topics to learn the process to set IAM for DB
authentication:

  * [Enabling and disabling IAM database authentication](./UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.Enabling.html)

  * [Creating and using an IAM policy for IAM database access](./UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.IAMPolicy.html)

  * [Creating a database account using IAM authentication](./UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.DBAccounts.html)

  * [Connecting to your DB cluster using IAM authentication](./UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.Connecting.html)

## Region and version availability

Feature availability and support varies across specific versions of each
Aurora database engine, and across AWS Regions. For more information on
version and Region availability with Aurora and IAM database authentication,
see [Supported Regions and Aurora DB engines for IAM database
authentication](./Concepts.Aurora_Fea_Regions_DB-eng.Feature.IAMdbauth.html).

For Aurora MySQL, all supported DB instance classes support IAM database
authentication, except for db.t2.small and db.t3.small. For information about
the supported DB instance classes, see [Supported DB engines for DB instance
classes](./Concepts.DBInstanceClass.SupportAurora.html).

## CLI and SDK support

IAM database authentication is available for the [AWS
CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/rds/generate-db-auth-
token.html) and for the following language-specific AWS SDKs:

  * [AWS SDK for .NET](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkfornet/v3/apidocs/items/RDS/TRDSAuthTokenGenerator.html)

  * [AWS SDK for C++](https://sdk.amazonaws.com/cpp/api/LATEST/class_aws_1_1_r_d_s_1_1_r_d_s_client.html#ae134ffffed5d7672f6156d324e7bd392)

  * [AWS SDK for Go](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-go/api/service/rds/#pkg-overview)

  * [AWS SDK for Java](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/latest/reference/software/amazon/awssdk/services/rds/RdsUtilities.html)

  * [AWS SDK for JavaScript](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/v3/latest/modules/_aws_sdk_rds_signer.html)

  * [AWS SDK for PHP](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aws-sdk-php/v3/api/class-Aws.Rds.AuthTokenGenerator.html)

  * [AWS SDK for Python (Boto3)](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/services/rds.html#RDS.Client.generate_db_auth_token)

  * [AWS SDK for Ruby](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-ruby/v3/api/Aws/RDS/AuthTokenGenerator.html)

## Limitations for IAM database authentication

When using IAM database authentication, the following limitations apply:

  * IAM database authentication throttles connections at 200 connections per second.

Connections that use the same authentication token are not throttled. We
recommend that you reuse authentication tokens when possible.

  * Currently, IAM database authentication doesn't support all global condition context keys.

For more information about global condition context keys, see [AWS global
condition context
keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies_condition-
keys.html) in the _IAM User Guide_.

  * For PostgreSQL, if the IAM role (`rds_iam`) is added to a user (including the RDS master user), IAM authentication takes precedence over password authentication, so the user must log in as an IAM user.

  * For  Aurora PostgreSQL, you cannot use IAM authentication to establish a replication connection.

  * You cannot use a custom Route√Ç 53 DNS record instead of the DB cluster endpoint to generate the authentication token.

  * CloudWatch and CloudTrail don't log IAM authentication. These services do not track `generate-db-auth-token` API calls that authorize the IAM role to enable database connection.

  * IAM DB authorization requires compute resources on the database cluster. You must have between 300 and 1000 MiB extra memory on your database for reliable connectivity. To see the memory needed for your workload, compare the RES column for RDS processes in the Enhanced Monitoring processlist before and after enabling IAM DB authentication. See [Viewing OS metrics in the RDS console](./USER_Monitoring.OS.Viewing.html).

If you are using a burstable class instance, avoid running out of memory by
reducing the memory used by other parameters like buffers and cache by the
same amount.

  * For Aurora MySQL, you cannot use password based authentication for a database user you configure with IAM authentication.

## Recommendations for IAM database authentication

We recommend the following when using IAM database authentication:

  * Use IAM database authentication when your application requires fewer than 200 new IAM database authentication connections per second.

The database engines that work with Amazon Aurora don't impose any limits on
authentication attempts per second. However, when you use IAM database
authentication, your application must generate an authentication token. Your
application then uses that token to connect to the DB cluster. If you exceed
the limit of maximum new connections per second, then the extra overhead of
IAM database authentication can cause connection throttling.

Consider using connection pooling in your applications to mitigate constant
connection creation. This can reduce the overhead from IAM DB authentication
and allow your applications to reuse existing connections. Alternatively,
consider using RDS Proxy for these use cases. RDS Proxy has additional costs.
See [RDS Proxy pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/proxy/pricing/).

  * The size of an IAM database authentication token depends on many things including the number of IAM tags, IAM service policies, ARN lengths, as well as other IAM and database properties. The minimum size of this token is generally about 1 KB but can be larger. Since this token is used as the password in the connection string to the database using IAM authentication, you should ensure that your database driver (e.g., ODBC) and/or any tools do not limit or otherwise truncate this token due to its size. A truncated token will cause the authentication validation done by the database and IAM to fail.

  * If you are using temporary credentials when creating an IAM database authentication token, the temporary credentials must still be valid when using the IAM database authentication token to make a connection request.

## Unsupported AWS global condition context keys

IAM database authentication does not support the following subset of AWS
global condition context keys.

  * `aws:Referer`

  * `aws:SourceIp`

  * `aws:SourceVpc`

  * `aws:SourceVpce`

  * `aws:UserAgent`

  * `aws:VpcSourceIp`

For more information, see [AWS global condition context
keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies_condition-
keys.html) in the _IAM User Guide_.

![Warning](https://d1ge0kk1l5kms0.cloudfront.net/images/G/01/webservices/console/warning.png)
**Javascript is disabled or is unavailable in your browser.**

To use the Amazon Web Services Documentation, Javascript must be enabled.
Please refer to your browser's Help pages for instructions.

[Document Conventions](/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

Cross-service confused deputy prevention

Enabling and disabling

Did this page help you? - Yes

Thanks for letting us know we're doing a good job!

If you've got a moment, please tell us what we did right so we can do more of
it.

Did this page help you? - No

Thanks for letting us know this page needs work. We're sorry we let you down.

If you've got a moment, please tell us how we can make the documentation
better.

