# Processed Content from URL: {'REFERENCE': 'https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/UsingWithRDS.IAM.ServiceLinkedRoles.html'}

[](/pdfs/AmazonRDS/latest/AuroraUserGuide/aurora-
ug.pdf#UsingWithRDS.IAM.ServiceLinkedRoles "Open PDF")

[Documentation](/index.html)[Amazon RDS](/rds/index.html)[User Guide for
Aurora](CHAP_AuroraOverview.html)

Service-linked role permissions for Amazon AuroraService-linked role
permissions for Amazon RDS BetaService-linked role for Amazon RDS Preview

# Using service-linked roles for Amazon Aurora

Amazon Aurora uses AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM)[ service-linked
roles](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_terms-and-
concepts.html#iam-term-service-linked-role). A service-linked role is a unique
type of IAM role that is linked directly to Amazon Aurora. Service-linked
roles are predefined by Amazon Aurora and include all the permissions that the
service requires to call other AWS services on your behalf.

A service-linked role makes using Amazon Aurora easier because you don't have
to manually add the necessary permissions. Amazon Aurora defines the
permissions of its service-linked roles, and unless defined otherwise, only
Amazon Aurora can assume its roles. The defined permissions include the trust
policy and the permissions policy, and that permissions policy cannot be
attached to any other IAM entity.

You can delete the roles only after first deleting their related resources.
This protects your Amazon Aurora resources because you can't inadvertently
remove permission to access the resources.

For information about other services that support service-linked roles, see
[AWS services that work with
IAM](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_aws-services-
that-work-with-iam.html) and look for the services that have **Yes** in the
**Service-Linked Role** column. Choose a **Yes** with a link to view the
service-linked role documentation for that service.

## Service-linked role permissions for Amazon Aurora

Amazon Aurora uses the service-linked role named AWSServiceRoleForRDS to allow
Amazon RDS to call AWS services on behalf of your DB clusters.

The AWSServiceRoleForRDS service-linked role trusts the following services to
assume the role:

  * `rds.amazonaws.com`

This service-linked role has a permissions policy attached to it called
`AmazonRDSServiceRolePolicy` that grants it permissions to operate in your
account.

For more information about this policy, including the JSON policy document,
see [AmazonRDSServiceRolePolicy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/aws-managed-
policy/latest/reference/AmazonRDSServiceRolePolicy.html) in the _AWS Managed
Policy Reference Guide_.

###### Note

You must configure permissions to allow an IAM entity (such as a user, group,
or role) to create, edit, or delete a service-linked role. If you encounter
the following error message:

**Unable to create the resource. Verify that you have permission to create
service linked role. Otherwise wait and try again later.**

Make sure you have the following permissions enabled:

    
    
    {
        "Action": "iam:CreateServiceLinkedRole",
        "Effect": "Allow",
        "Resource": "arn:aws:iam::*:role/aws-service-role/rds.amazonaws.com/AWSServiceRoleForRDS",
        "Condition": {
            "StringLike": {
                "iam:AWSServiceName":"rds.amazonaws.com"
            }
        }
    }
        

For more information, see [Service-linked role
permissions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/using-service-
linked-roles.html#service-linked-role-permissions) in the _IAM User Guide_.

### Creating a service-linked role for Amazon Aurora

You don't need to manually create a service-linked role. When you create a DB
cluster, Amazon Aurora creates the service-linked role for you.

###### Important

If you were using the Amazon Aurora service before December 1, 2017, when it
began supporting service-linked roles, then Amazon Aurora created the
AWSServiceRoleForRDS role in your account. To learn more, see [A new role
appeared in my AWS
account](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/troubleshoot_roles.html#troubleshoot_roles_new-
role-appeared).

If you delete this service-linked role, and then need to create it again, you
can use the same process to recreate the role in your account. When you create
a DB cluster, Amazon Aurora creates the service-linked role for you again.

### Editing a service-linked role for Amazon Aurora

Amazon Aurora does not allow you to edit the AWSServiceRoleForRDS service-
linked role. After you create a service-linked role, you cannot change the
name of the role because various entities might reference the role. However,
you can edit the description of the role using IAM. For more information, see
[Editing a service-linked
role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/using-service-linked-
roles.html#edit-service-linked-role) in the _IAM User Guide_.

### Deleting a service-linked role for Amazon Aurora

If you no longer need to use a feature or service that requires a service-
linked role, we recommend that you delete that role. That way you don't have
an unused entity that is not actively monitored or maintained. However, you
must delete all of your DB clusters before you can delete the service-linked
role.

#### Cleaning up a service-linked role

Before you can use IAM to delete a service-linked role, you must first confirm
that the role has no active sessions and remove any resources used by the
role.

###### To check whether the service-linked role has an active session in the
IAM console

  1. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the IAM console at [https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/).

  2. In the navigation pane of the IAM console, choose **Roles**. Then choose the name (not the check box) of the AWSServiceRoleForRDS role.

  3. On the **Summary** page for the chosen role, choose the **Access Advisor** tab.

  4. On the **Access Advisor** tab, review recent activity for the service-linked role.

###### Note

If you are unsure whether Amazon Aurora is using the AWSServiceRoleForRDS
role, you can try to delete the role. If the service is using the role, then
the deletion fails and you can view the AWS Regions where the role is being
used. If the role is being used, then you must wait for the session to end
before you can delete the role. You cannot revoke the session for a service-
linked role.

If you want to remove the AWSServiceRoleForRDS role, you must first delete
_all_ of your DB clusters.

##### Deleting all of your clusters

Use one of the following procedures to delete a single cluster. Repeat the
procedure for each of your clusters.

###### To delete a cluster (console)

  1. Open the Amazon RDS console at [https://console.aws.amazon.com/rds/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/rds/).

  2. In the **Databases** list, choose the cluster that you want to delete.

  3. For **Cluster Actions** , choose **Delete**.

  4. Choose **Delete**.

###### To delete a cluster (CLI)

See `[delete-db-
cluster](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/rds/delete-db-
cluster.html)` in the _AWS CLI Command Reference_.

###### To delete a cluster (API)

See
`[DeleteDBCluster](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/APIReference/API_DeleteDBCluster.html)`
in the _Amazon RDS API Reference_.

You can use the IAM console, the IAM CLI, or the IAM API to delete the
AWSServiceRoleForRDS service-linked role. For more information, see [Deleting
a service-linked role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/using-
service-linked-roles.html#delete-service-linked-role) in the _IAM User Guide_.

## Service-linked role permissions for Amazon RDS Beta

Amazon Aurora uses the service-linked role named `AWSServiceRoleForRDSBeta` to
allow Amazon Aurora to call AWS services on behalf of your RDS DB resources.

The AWSServiceRoleForRDSBeta service-linked role trusts the following services
to assume the role:

  * `rds.amazonaws.com`

This service-linked role has a permissions policy attached to it called
`AmazonRDSBetaServiceRolePolicy` that grants it permissions to operate in your
account. For more information, see [AWS managed policy:
AmazonRDSBetaServiceRolePolicy](./rds-security-iam-awsmanpol.html#rds-
security-iam-awsmanpol-AmazonRDSBetaServiceRolePolicy).

###### Note

You must configure permissions to allow an IAM entity (such as a user, group,
or role) to create, edit, or delete a service-linked role. If you encounter
the following error message:

**Unable to create the resource. Verify that you have permission to create
service linked role. Otherwise wait and try again later.**

Make sure you have the following permissions enabled:

    
    
    {
        "Action": "iam:CreateServiceLinkedRole",
        "Effect": "Allow",
        "Resource": "arn:aws:iam::*:role/aws-service-role/custom.rds.amazonaws.com/AmazonRDSBetaServiceRolePolicy",
        "Condition": {
            "StringLike": {
                "iam:AWSServiceName":"custom.rds.amazonaws.com"
            }
        }
    }
        

For more information, see [Service-linked role
permissions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/using-service-
linked-roles.html#service-linked-role-permissions) in the _IAM User Guide_.

## Service-linked role for Amazon RDS Preview

Amazon Aurora uses the service-linked role named `AWSServiceRoleForRDSPreview`
to allow Amazon Aurora to call AWS services on behalf of your RDS DB
resources.

The AWSServiceRoleForRDSPreview service-linked role trusts the following
services to assume the role:

  * `rds.amazonaws.com`

This service-linked role has a permissions policy attached to it called
`AmazonRDSPreviewServiceRolePolicy` that grants it permissions to operate in
your account. For more information, see [AWS managed policy:
AmazonRDSPreviewServiceRolePolicy](./rds-security-iam-awsmanpol.html#rds-
security-iam-awsmanpol-AmazonRDSPreviewServiceRolePolicy).

###### Note

You must configure permissions to allow an IAM entity (such as a user, group,
or role) to create, edit, or delete a service-linked role. If you encounter
the following error message:

**Unable to create the resource. Verify that you have permission to create
service linked role. Otherwise wait and try again later.**

Make sure you have the following permissions enabled:

    
    
    {
        "Action": "iam:CreateServiceLinkedRole",
        "Effect": "Allow",
        "Resource": "arn:aws:iam::*:role/aws-service-role/custom.rds.amazonaws.com/AmazonRDSPreviewServiceRolePolicy",
        "Condition": {
            "StringLike": {
                "iam:AWSServiceName":"custom.rds.amazonaws.com"
            }
        }
    }
        

For more information, see [Service-linked role
permissions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/using-service-
linked-roles.html#service-linked-role-permissions) in the _IAM User Guide_.

![Warning](https://d1ge0kk1l5kms0.cloudfront.net/images/G/01/webservices/console/warning.png)
**Javascript is disabled or is unavailable in your browser.**

To use the Amazon Web Services Documentation, Javascript must be enabled.
Please refer to your browser's Help pages for instructions.

[Document Conventions](/general/latest/gr/docconventions.html)

Master user account privileges

Using Amazon Aurora with Amazon VPC

Did this page help you? - Yes

Thanks for letting us know we're doing a good job!

If you've got a moment, please tell us what we did right so we can do more of
it.

Did this page help you? - No

Thanks for letting us know this page needs work. We're sorry we let you down.

If you've got a moment, please tell us how we can make the documentation
better.

